"x"
"I was taught before criticism that you should first bring up the good points. Good points: Cinematography, good actors, great old movie clips and music, great sets, good costumes, and an extremely promising storyline. Unfortunately, this movie missed, when it really could have, and SHOULD have, hit. 
I think from now on I'll choose my movies based upon how they're doing at the box office, and not based on reviews. It seems to be a better indicator of what the public REALLY thinks about a film. 
We're at week 3 and (for such a seemingly magnificent film), The Shape of Water hasn't even broken even. A telling clue. Budget:$19,400,000 (estimated)
Opening Weekend USA: $166,564, 3 December 2017, Limited Release
Gross USA: $12,140,155, 28 December 2017Personally, I found it contrived, unbelievable, and just plain stupid. Where to start? 
A cookie cutter \"Beauty and the Beast\" love story with too many holes. I never caught on to the burgeoning romance. Somehow it just fell flat for me. It was already a mediocre movie when they did that ridiculous black & white dance sequence, which was so far out of place, I lost all interest. The music and old film clips were great, but what were they thinking? Were they trying to cash in on some La La Land success? Or was it supposed be some allusion to Cinderella's ball? It would have made more sense as a dream sequence either where Hawkins had dozed off during a flick, or in the bathtub. 
Ew. Were the masturbation scenes really necessary? I can't see where they drove the plot. 
Are we supposed to believe a creature like that could or would run into a theatre, leaving a blood trail no less, without being seen by ANYONE? Then he just stands watching a film. (All the while knowing he was in danger from humans and he needed to get to water)? All this, and the projectionist doesn't notice? Where are the film patrons? How'd he get IN without being noticed by anyone? An unlocked door? What would be the purpose of having a box office if you're going to leave an access door unlocked? 
Are we supposed to believe that the creature, being so sick and weak that he must be released immediately, suddenly has superhuman strength after some strange (and inexplicable) resurrection event following his \"death\"? 
And are we supposed to believe that you could pull a full grown man via a bullet hole in his cheek? (You'd rip right through.)
Are we supposed to believe that the best friend wouldn't have freaked out about the coitus? In her eyes, wasn't it more an animal. At the very least, one would expect her to broach the subject of pregnancy. 
How did those two remain standing in the bathroom? The force of the water would have carried them out. If it was pressing that much on the door, the window should have blown. 
Why didn't Richard Jenkins appear to grieve at all regarding his cat?
And why? Oh WHY? Couldn't they just release him directly into the ocean immediately, rather than wait for the locks to fill. I mean the water was RIGHT THERE. They could have made a bath in the back of the van, and just got him to the coast. 
On and on I could go, but I'm done with my rant. Save your money. If you want dumbed down fantasy get the Hallmark channel. At least you know you're getting purely pleasant drivel, instead of wasting your money and being grossly disappointed."
"Could be one of the worst movies that I actually watched all the way to the end."
""
"
                "
"How did anyone enjoy this boring, overrated piece of garbage?"
"This movie sucks- the Academy must be on drugs to give this an award"
"So determined is Del Toro to keep his happy ending that he forces the film into a narrative structure that is both cliched and unimaginative. The 1960s setting might have served for an interesting back drop for Del Toro to explore social issues, but it's script is so on the nose, his characters so dull and formulaic, that it waters down any meaningful message."
"I was prepared to like this film. Hell, I WANTED to like it, seriously. Based on his previous work, I thought Del Toro a filmmaker with some chops (although now I'm not so sure...) and really, I had some expectations for this newest piece of his.It started well: the sets had this kind of baroque, Gilliam-esque density and muted palette that gave the film a certain visual appeal and tone. Twenty minutes in I was thinking, \"Okay... it's not as good as I hoped, but maybe it'll pull itself together...\" By the end of the first hour I was wondering if I could make it to the finish without hurling something at the screen. But the thing is, I always hold out this forlorn hope that somehow, against all odds, at the finale the movie will redeem itself, explain away the vacuous plot holes, hackneyed acting and ridiculous, cliché ridden dialog, and make SOME kind of sense. Sadly, this was not to be the case. This film was awful right through to the credits.I really would like to have a conversation with someone who adored this film. I would like to ask them how they managed to get past all of the elements in this film that annoyed and, quite frankly, insulted me as a viewer: the stock, cliched characters, the utterly egregious plot holes, the cringe-worthy dialog (\"You ARE a god!\" Eek.), and the fact that our central character, a guy in a rubber fish suit, looked to me exactly like... a guy in a rubber fish suit. For pity's sake, it wasn't even consistent from scene to scene! Did they LOSE some pieces of the suit during filming?? Hell, you could even SEE the seams in some shots!Okay, just for fun (sarcasm alert) let's look at a couple the more obvious plot holes:So, apparently we can't release fish-guy back into the ocean because the flood gate at the end of the canal is closed. Explain to me: what's the problem with driving an extra 400 yards to the other side of the gate? Do you seriously expect me to believe that this canal is the ONLY access to the ocean within driving distance? Come ON...After the great escape (though machinations so absurdly improbable I'm not even going to dignify them with a comment), our well-intentioned heroine decides to keep fish-guy happy (oh, and have sex, too, apparently. Right...) by flooding her entire bathroom with water Does anyone seriously believe that the upper floor of an old building like that could even come CLOSE to handling that kind of mass without a catastrophic structural failure? I'm sorry, but that is simply impossible. Period. Assuming the room is about 10 by 10 (likely bigger), that comes to nearly 50 thousand pounds of water, or 25 tons. In reality, it wouldn't just leak down into the audience below; the entire room, water, floor, walls, bathroom fixtures and everything else, would come crashing down onto the moviegoers, killing or injuring at least a dozen. But that wouldn't make for a charming, romantic movie, would it?I expect some people are reading the above and thinking, \"Oh come on! It's a fantasy; stop being so literal.\" Nope. Sorry, I disagree. If you place a fantasy in a fantasy world then fine, you can write your own rules, create your own reality, the sky's the limit. But if you place your fantasy in the REAL WORLD, then you have to abide by real-world rules. You can't pick and choose what parts of reality to accept and what to cast aside because it's inconvenient. To do so just lazy writing, and this film is rife with it.I could go on, but really, what's the point? And frankly, I would very much like to put this horrible experience behind me, thank you very much. I have to admit that Sally Hawkins (as Elisa, the mute cleaning lady lead) did a decent job with a shallowly written character. Also, the ubiquitous permeation of cold war paranoia in the 60's was decently captured. But I fail to see how Richard Jenkins, a character actor I admire, could allow himself to be drawn into this mess, especially given his cliched, stock character of the lonely, closeted gay man (if you're going to insert an LGBTQ character into a film, could you not at least make him/her interesting?)Suffice to say, I have not had any respect for the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences since the execrable \"Oliver!\" won best picture way back in 1968. This film and its woefully misplaced accolades does nothing to change that opinion."
"Bad text music.
I wonder about all this high score!
This movie has 2 main characters,but Every 2 are mute and do not speak until the end of the movie!
It was very tedious"
"This is only for movie-snobs, if you are looking for some real fun and real values don't watch this. One of the worst movies in my life."
"Actually I don't know what to say about this movie .
A woman falls in love with a frogman and yes they make sex ... I don't know why this movie is so overrated !!! They could have done this better and without that thing I mean the frogman to deliver the message , the movie is too long and boring ...
If you cut the porn scenes it would be a good movie for children ..."
"The most empty film of the decade. All the stupidity of the world is there, bad soldiers, good monster and nice dumb woman. Only the image (color changes) is interesting but everything else is to throw and stupidly caricatural. You could tell me that it was awarded the Oscar for Best Picture and Best Director in 2018, but there is an explanation for this (but do not repeat it): there are a lot of very stupid people in this world and this film is a proof of this."
"All the bad reviews here are true. Will just add... why couldn't they at least hire actors who can speak proper Russian? This is a big joke: he grabbed so much money for the movie,yet gave nothing in return. The story is unoriginal and relies on all possible stereotypes."
"About one sixth of the movie is in Russian, fish-laguage or sign language and without subtitles you get nothing.
It is about a fish-man found from some scientists and a mute(she cannot talk at all) cleaning lady in the facility the fish is stored. They fall in love and have SEX and she takes it at home to save it from death. In the meantime she is chased by the \"manager\" of the project. 2 hours of my life wasted..."
"Terribly weird movie. Starts off weird, has a guy snapping his fingers off, ends weird. Don't watch."
"One of the worst movies I ever seen.
It tries to be special but it's just lack of any good taste.."
"One of the worst films that I have ever seen in my life. I absolutely loathed it."
"It's one of these films that gives these elitist arty types platform to say \"You small people are too stupid to understand this\"No - the film is stupid!"
"A woman in love with a fish ..
what message this movie is trying to send?
any form of weird relationships is Okay?
I have no idea how this movie got so much awards"
"This was the biggest waste of time ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"What a beautiful story, you have a deaf woman who we see pleasing herself, that one day she discovers a sea beast, and she decides to do anything in her power (even 'kill' and let other people die) in order to get it to her apartment and have an intimate moment with it (repeatedly) eventually the loving sea best amphibian after many scenes of: 'we are all creatures of this world, and you are not different from us the humans' eats the head of a cat, but oh well things happens and then some more intimacy moments between the mute and the amphibian, and then more deaths of innocent people and people with families, but most important thing to keep in mind is: Some people find love even in something disgusting like this."
"It tried to be special, but it is just disgusting!"
"So like many people they do their first review on something that absolutely sucks!
I am lost for words as to why this won oscars and had so much hype."
"Imagination gone wild and crappy...ignore, spend your precious time on something else..."
"I really tried to give it a chance and watched the whole movie even though I was tempted numerous times to turn it off and in the end I was even more annoyed that I started watching it in the first place"
"Had more fun watching crown green bowling in slow motion.......................zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz..... . . ..................zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz"
"It's difficult to explain how bad this movie is. Do not waste your time.A mute cleaning lady falls in love with a half human - half fish that eats cats.The bad army guys want to kill himShe kidnaps/saves him from a super guarded army laboratory. Actually it's the mute cleaning lady, her gay older friend and another cleaning lady, the team that put the army to shame.Than she takes him to her apartement and keeps him in the bathroom. She fills the entire bathroom with water so she can sleep with him, but the water floods the cinema below her apartement.An so on....The bad guys are 100% bad. Nothing good about them.The good guys are 100% good.The russians are obviously bad.There is also a gay person, a colored person just to make everything politically correct.0 (zeri) stars."
"Such a bad film. weird, boring and VERY annoying. don't recommend you watch this as it's a waste of time. also he eats a cat which makes me very mad. the water man is kinda adorable though so he gets an extra star"
"Diabetics beware, you're in for a saccharine flavoured heap of mush.The Shape of Water was directed/created by Guillermo Del Toro best known for creepy and violent films such as Pan's Labyrinth and more mainstream writings such as Hellboy and The Hobbit. For some reason he has had a dose of the lovestrucks and written a film that is basically Amelie meets Creature from the Black Lagoon. There are a couple of questionable violent scenes (torturing a dying man by dragging him around via a bullet wound to the cheek had a touch of the old GDT that we know and love) but the plot literally has no surprises whatsoever. I picked the minor twist about 10 minutes in, and spent the second half of the film waiting for it to be over. I am sorry to say the only interesting part was the reveal (not literally) of the sea creature's penis via the main character's description which is frankly hilarious. Octavia Spencer does a fantastic job of playing herself (Was this woman born middle aged?) but let's face it we love her anyway. I would love her to be my best friend, she's a hoot.Michael Shannon (whom I remember from Take Shelter and Boardwalk Empire) plays a creepy bad guy in a way that makes me never want to have him around for Christmas lunch. Why does he always play someone sexually awkward? I pray we'll never find out. I was most disappointed that unlike Pan's Labyrinth and some of the other films GDT has made it's not set in a fantastical different world. It's basically the 1950s cold war era in USA with no real pretense of being anything but. I was hoping for a magical realism, but other than the creature, there's no otherworldliness to it. I am a solid romantic, but I found the plot so saccharine that it made me feel nauseous. There is also a sudden musical number that almost had me running for the aisle, and my sister desperate to see my husband's face (He's allergic to musicals generally). Apart from this light relief, I couldn't wait to get out of there.I am pretty alone in this opinion, our party was split between 3 people who loved it, and my husband and I who hated it. Maybe if I hadn't seen other GDT films I would have liked it more. My husband also thought the trailer completely misrepresented what he expected from the film. So maybe we were in the wrong movie. But I think romance lovers won't like the art house element, and art house/GDT fans won't like this film. So I think commercially it will be hard to place."
"I understand the need to make innuendo feel like art. Eh. No. I don't. This movie was made in 1983 starring Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah. Only THAT was a great movie bc it didn't shove an absolutely unoriginal and very recognizable movie with ridiculous bs \"artistic leanings\" down our throats. I groaned out loud. More than once when I was able to specifically guess the ending with the cops at the waterfront and the main characters disappearing in the water and swimming away. GIVE ME A BREAK. BORRRRRRING!! Thank God 2019 Oscar nominees are worth their nods. Haven't been disappointed at all (other than Mary Queen of Scots... )"
"This has absolutely so much going for it - beautifully filmed, with a magnificent, sweeping score and a stunning performance from Sally Hawkins - but crashes and burns in sentiment, cliché and cartoon supporting acts. It comes across, ultimately, as a cack-handed mash up of \"E.T.\", \"Splash\" and \"The Creature From the Black Lagoon\", as an aquatic man is captured and brought into a secret military American laboratory in the 1960s at the height of the cold war, and Sally Hawkins' mute cleaner develops a bond with it and, ultimately, falls in love.Sounds interesting, doesn't it? It certainly has potential, but if the sassy black friend, constantly yammering on about her feckless husband (Octavia Spencer, surely tiring of this kind of role) doesn't get you, or the inefficient gay neighbour/best friend (Richard Jenkins - not his finest two hours) or Michael Shannon's cartoonish, 2D villain, then stay tuned for the ghastly black-and-white fantasy dance number, in which Hawkins and the creature cavort on an elaborate set like Astaire and Rogers. It truly is a ghastly mis-step, jaw-droppingly stupid. The film never really recovered for me, and it lumbered to its predictable climax and ending with numbing melodramatics and sentiment."
"This movie typifies the absurdity of the incestuous moviemaking industry. If this movie were made by someone unknown, it would be pilloried and laughed at. Instead, because it is made by G del Toro, the critics and the Academy fawn over it.If you liked The Green Mike, you might like this. The story is absurd, with moments of evil from the cartoonish antagonist that are simultaneously laughable and disgusting. I feel robbed of two hours of my life when I could have been watching something else. In fact, we are literally going to watch The Bachelor now to cleanse our souls."
"I've thoroughly enjoyed del Toros work over the years, and I am an avid Sci-fi fan so this would have been a match in heaven if the movie hadn't been so utterly predictable, boring and... correct.Growing up in Sweden, this movie really reminded me of the 70s and 80s when movies where there to educate the masses and not to entertain. Political messages - I don't really care if they are \"right\" or not - belong in propaganda, unless the movie is about said political, obviously. Simply cramming it into a movie - for absolutely no real reason - gives me the shivers. Stop the subterfuge already!And then, predictability. Oh for goodness sake, who did not see that ending come after, what, 15 minutes? Maybe I've seen too many Sci-fi flicks but it was quite clear immediately. Not the usual del Toro way.I guess I feel perplex after watching this. Del Toro is good, very good, but this? And this is what brings the Oscars? Let's all hope this movie does not start a trend."
"What complete and utter BS, this is a perfect example of the Kings new clothes, I am neither slow witted nor crass but in all honesty this film is completely ridiculous."
"I don't like reviews a whole lot for movies because like, to each their own, and everyone's going to like different things. However, even with that being said, how did that movie win any awards let alone gain all this acclaim? It was weak, hard to gain any traction, and was frankly boring and poorly thrown together. I hated it. Terrible explanation of why there's a human-fish? They really throw that on everyone, and expect us to just go with the flow and take it along with the rest of this total abomination? I hope I never have to watch it again, I don't think I could stomach it. Do yourself a favor if you're thinking about watching it: just don't do it."
"Ok, so basically the point of this film is that a human falls in love with a fish man & then suddenly sleeps with him, they end up in the sea together, under water & then the film just ends not knowing what happens 2 either of them. Started off good but then had a poor ending & it was just odd, i mean i get the little mermaid but this was just weird."
"I don't write reviews, but man was this bad. Stopped watching during the musical portion. Can't believe this beat Dunkirk on directing and best picture. I think Three Billboards was also nominated that year, which only makes matters worse. Can't remember the last movie I couldn't even be bothered to finish."
"I really wonder, how the hell could that movie win 4 oscars... ?!!!!!"
"My rating of 2 stars is solely for the production values. This is really just a B-grade movie made on a huge budget with a highly skilled production team - it has no other redeeming qualities, and, except for the fact that so many other clunkers have won oscars, I would be bewildered at its success at the Academy Awards.The plot is very much a remake of The Creature From The Black Lagoon (1954), but it comes off a poor second in comparison."
"I've been a sci-fi fan all my life, and hearing all the hype about this movie, I couldn't wait to see it! Talk about being let down! This was one of the absolute worst movies I've ever seen, regardless of the genre. The story line was the same old rehash of the mean scientist abusing the alien creature. Add in a girl who only sees the gentleness of the creature and you've got the outline of the movie. Boo, hiss! They wrote the character of the girl as mute, rather than blind. What a twist! Duh! Terrible story. Poor acting. Waste of time and money. And this won awards? Seriously? Add the ending from Splash, with the girl and creature living happily ever after under the sea, another cliche."
"Beautifully shot and wonderfully stylised but come on...what a crock of ****. Don't get me wrong, I love SciFi, but this Creature from the Black Lagoon love story just doesn't hold water."
"Cold hearted and inhuman Americans, compassionate and decent Soviets? It's not just a bad movie, it's a propaganda piece. Such amount of hatred for the healthy society can come only from a spiteful, little man."
"One of the few films that I just could not watch until the end...I lasted about 30min and I got so bored that I just quit."
"I have had my Cineworld card for over 14 years so see a lot of movies. This has to be one of the worst I've seen. Boring, slow & ridiculous but not as awful as the previous years winner... MOONLIGHT. That film literally gets me angry just thinking about it. These 2 are why we do not watch the Oscars anymore. Pretentious rubbish."
"Beautiful to look at, intriguing story and a great cast. What's not to like. Well, everything. In past times this would have been a Corman type 'b' picture. In today's age of media control it is Oscar winning art. Sorry, this is a poorly executed excuse for entertainment. Racism, bigotry, diversity, big brother,the cold war all played out in a base way with every plot line telegraphed. Hype will not persuade me this was the best film of 2018. Sadly disappointed and totally bemused by the the high ratings."
"So silly and disgusting ,, overrrrrrrrrated
A don't know why or how it take the oscar ??"
"Fantastic back drop, costumes etc, it looks great. The storyline is weak , obvious, ridiculous. Shocked at how highly rated this movie is."
"I tried
I persevered
I gave up
It was so boring.
There was so much potential but basically nothing happened, and the \"twist\" is so obvious."
"Graphically, this movie does attract your attention. The rest is fairly drab and dour however. A slow and largely hackneyed plot that reaches no great heights but never quite scrapes the bottom of the barrel.It is described as a romantic, dark fantasy and I think this should have prompted me to lower my expectations. It's a chic flick disguised as something else, though I must say - even my wife rues the loss of two hours and three minutes of her life.I would class it is a 'mystery movie'. The mystery being - why was it made, how did it win the 'Best Picture' award at the Oscars and why did I waste my time watching it?"
"What do you say about this movie it's pretty to the when the woman starts having a sexual relationship with the creature the in losers the plot very fast"
"An aquatic creature is captured by the Americans during the Cold War and held at a secure facility. A cleaner at the facility, Elisa Esposito, played by Sally Hawkins, who is mute, connects with the creature and because he is being badly treated arranges for his escape. He stays in her apartment and they fall in love.This was winner of Best Film at this years Oscars so it must be good right. Well yes and no. The film does look fantastic, just beautifully shot throughout, and the performances by the main characters is excellent but...well it just did not do it for me.I actually watched this films in 2 parts. I started watching it and after half an hour was just not enjoying it switched it off. It is a rental Blu-Ray, so the next day, to get my moneys worth, I decided to give it a second chance starting from where I had finished. It grabbed me a bit more this time and I watched it to the end.I can see why some people love this film and rate it highly. Beautifully shot as I said, good performances, and a nice story. But the dark fantasy vibe that the film is wrapped up in did not work for me and I found it slow and a bit boring.Only watch if you are a Guillermo del Toro fan, or lover of this style of film."
"The academy jury must have watched the movie on acid. Simply unbelievable this movie won best picture. Ludicrous!"
"While the basic premise of this King Kong-ish plot, the lead acting (with the exception of the stereotypical and WAY overplayed villain), and the recreation of the 60's time period are all somewhat worthy (three stars worth), there are many oddly-forced and clunky scenes all of which impede the storytelling flow and represent a serious distraction: Gratuitous gore (rotting fingers, headless kitty), homosexual innuendo, masturbation, a bathroom that will hold 7 feet of water by simply closing the door and putting a towel under it, inter-species love at first sight sexual attraction and off-screen consummation, and a Saturday-Night-Live-like song and dance skit (?), among several others. Even with the love-conquers-all 'happy ending' and a beautifully depicted submerged in water embrace final scene,' overall it doesn't digest well.P.S. The shill-like adoration of just the titles alone (!) of most of the 10/10 user ratings for this film are absurdly hilarious, their effusively giddy text even more so."
"G. Del Toro has been frequently fawned over as a 'masterful story teller'. I found nothing 'masterful' about it. I absolutely could not hook in to this film. It made no logistical sense at all. It also had a dark and cartoonish feel to it like a Bat Man film. The setting in which the story takes place is deeply flawed. Eliza (the dumb one), and Zelda (Octavia Spencer) work as cleaning ladies in a so-called top secret facility when there seems to be nothing top-secret about it.The cleaning pair wander at will throughout the facility and discover it's also 'top-secret' biological specimen with no clearance at all. Right.And low and behold, the biological specimen is none other than the Creature from the Black Lagoon! This time in living color and many upgrades.One might also notice Octavia Spencer is appearing in every other bomb out of Hollywood as a supporting actress and nothing more. Maybe in ten years they'll give her one of her own movies. Not holding my breath.Back to the Creature. We'll call him Creatch for short. The homely Eliza has a strict routine of hard boiling eggs while she masturbates furiously in her bathtub every morning. Eliza is fundamentally scared to death of normal men. She then brings the food to Creach, which she eventually falls in love with.Creach is super duper intelligent and can instantly learn English, American sign language and writing, but likes to savagely dine on the occasional domesticated cat here and there. Right.Creach also has super powers. He can almost instantly heal bodily wounds, as well as restore hair to a bald man. Alright, that one small bit I found pretty cool, but that's it. Eliza eventually decides to kidnap Creach, for his own good, so she can turn him loose into the ocean just one step ahead of Russian Agents who have infiltrated the facility for the soul purpose of killing him. Again, not a very top-secret organization.Shortly after that, Eliza and Creach begin having sex. That's right. An otherwise normal woman gets it on with a humanoid looking fish that looks like it dried out in the oven too long. Happens all the time I guess.The two subplots involving a sadistic head of security and an alcoholic neighbor who works as a graphics artist are barely even worth mentioning.And the ending? Beyond impossible.This story is strictly reserved for the over-emotional, over-romantic, and completely naïve.Go see it if you really want to, but you have been warned."
"If it wasn't for the sexy scenes it would be a great kids movie! It's really comical but I'm not sure that was the intention. I gave it 3 stars for the way it was shot, the cinematography is quite beautiful. Other than that I can't understand why it got so many awards!"
"Was anxiously awaiting viewing this \"Oscar Winning Film\". Where do I go to get these two hours of my life back. I found myself incapable of suspending reality this far. I found the entire ordeal mind numbing."
"The Shape of Water is noted director Guillermo del Toro's vastly overrated attempt to link mythic fantasy to the Cold War era. The problem with the film is its absurd premise: there's a secret government facility in Baltimore which houses an amphibian humanoid captured earlier in the Amazon by bad guy Colonel Richard Strickland (a cartoon, right wing martinet adventurer) played by an over the top Michael Shannon.Even if one accepts the premise (which I of course do not), you would think that security would be tight at the facility to ensure no unauthorized persons have access to the creature. Quite conveniently, however, the film's protagonist, the mute cleaning lady, Elisa (who communicates via sign language), is permitted to perform her cleaning duties inside the room where the newly minted \"creature from the black lagoon\" is imprisoned and easily ends up bonding with him (or it-which ever appellation you prefer!). Elisa soon hatches a plan to save the creature from the dastardly clutches of Strickland, and Strickland's sponsor, another vile right wing martinet, General Frank Hoyt. Of course the more than noble Elisa is joined by friends and confederates, all again quite conveniently joined at the hip by distinct, commonly held LIBERAL convictions. These associates include Elisa's best friend Zelda, played by Octavia Spencer in the familiar role as African-American \"help\" (will she ever be cast as the \"bad guy\" in any future films?), Giles, Elisa's neighbor, an artist and closeted gay, and a sympathetic scientist Dr. Robert Hoffstetler, who is actually a Soviet spy (note that Hoffstetler's superiors, are very much Strickland's counterparts, as they also evince a most unpleasant demeanor).Elisa somehow ends up ferreting the creature out of the facility after she learns of Strickland's deadline to vivisect it, allegedly for scientific purposes. Back at her apartment, she keeps the creature alive in a tub filled with salt water. Once the river is at full tide, the plan is to remove the creature from the apartment and bring it to safety, in the watery refuge.Meanwhile, the creature's dark side becomes slightly manifest when it attempts to take a bite out of a house cat (animal lovers do not despair: the creature is unsuccessful in significantly injuring the little kitty!). Giles is more than happy after it becomes apparent the creature has healing powers, touching Giles on his bald pate, and inducing some hair growth. And Elisa experiences pure bliss after discovering that the creature's genitalia is actually hidden and with a little coaxing, can actually engage in sexual intercourse (the act actually takes place in Elisa's bathroom, now completely flooded to the ceiling).Strickland, about to be fired by General Hoyt following the creature's disappearance, remains frustrated by not being able to find the lost amphibian (you would have thought that maybe he could have figured it out earlier that Elisa was the number one suspect). Strickland finally finds out from Zelda's terrified husband after unmercifully browbeating him, that Elisa is indeed the culprit who has sprung the creature from Strickland's deadly lair.No need to describe the rest of the plot in detail. Suffice it to say, there is a confrontation with Strickland who shoots both our heroes, only to meet his own demise at the hands of the creature, who miraculously recovers from Strickland's bullet to the gut. Elisa also revives (despite her wounds) and joins the creature in a blissful embrace underwater. How is this accomplished? Well, it seems Del Toro has kept his clues about Elisa's true nature from us all along. She's also some kind of long lost creature, and the wounds on the side of her neck, are actually gills-so she experiences some kind of re-awakening, again most conveniently while embracing her new found \"king.\"I actually have a friend who sees the denouement as some kind of Gnostic allegory. Of course anyone can read into this narrative, anything they want. But the fantasy element certainly seems way out of place with this Cold War tale which also has problems of its own, with its rather cheap triumph of liberal do-goodism over stereotypical right-wing demagoguery."
"Hollywood clearly had one of those hysterical mob love-ins with this film and forgot that it's actually a really tedious watch. The characters are one-dimensional (disabled or marginalised people are GOOD, other people are BAD); the tone is moralising, and the story itself is too absurd to be genuinely engaging. I was thoroughly disappointed."
"This film is the perfect definition of the words cheesy and kitsch. The real reason that I'm shocked is because it won an Oscar. Wow. Just wow..."
"Acting was fantastic... but I don't think we want to watch stuff we can't actually imagine happening. I'm sitting through this whole movie wondering why didn't he give her the ability to talk? Why exactly is she mute? Who screws an amphibian monster??!? I mean the list goes on and on... why did I waste my life watching this?!? Because it was an Oscar winner?!? Why? I still don't know. My favorite thing about this movie is the friendship of Elisa and Giles as well as Zelda. Zelda in particular always nagging about her husband. I wish I could recommend this.... but it was just so tacky in the intro where Elisa is masturbating within five mins of the movie.... as well as the whole story line.... I just can't."
"Whole movie pretty much disapointing. Weird actors with little skills."
"There's nothing hidden or secret about the plot if you're paying attention the first time. The amount of praise and hype for this film set pretty high expectations and I wish that it hadn't but it was too late. Parts of the story and some characters were enjoyable but for the most part, it just felt flat and was grossly underdeveloped for the amount of storytelling needed to make me care at all about any of these characters. Everyone fit into a perfect mold for their role in the story. There's not really anyone who feels like a real person, but if you can somehow find yourself connecting to the main character, you might have a shot at enjoying the movie. I did not, and I tried. Not the worst movie I've seen in the last couple years, but in the bottom 10 or so."
"A cross between \"The Creature from the Black Lagoon\", \"Free Willy\", and \"Love Story\". The song and dance routine was straight out of \"Young Frankenstein\"!"
"I was not a fan of the trailer with all of its syrupy sweet, cliché-riddled abundance but after it achieved the Oscar I felt there must be something in it of value. It's an odd fantasy that one either buys into or not. I was a \"not\" because the fantasy was not interesting to me. I can understand a strong curiosity and friendship with a monster but the lovemaking went to far for me. I'm a David Lynch fan, I love French new wave, I'm into non-mainstream film but not interspecies sex. It is beautifully photographed and technically flawless. Acting balances between strong and comical. Obviously as a monster fantasy the viewer has to suspend some reality but scenes like the bathroom filling with water and the dance number had me sighing."
"Guillermo del Toro is an excellent filmmaker. The premises of this movie are commendable but the implementation is plain horrible. We all have been told that our society is extremely divided today and if one of the sides wins then the end of the world will come. But I wonder since when has it become a crime to have different opinions?
The main premise behind the movie is that it is okay to be different and I am sure we all agree with that. The problem is that according to the movie if one differs from the \"different\" than it is a crime.
The world is simply black and white and there is nothing in the middle. The bad guys are racist, sadistic, and homophobic. The good guys are emotional, creative, and acceptable."
"I watch over 250 movies a year. I rate them all. I have a very detailed rating system and when I watched the trailer I was intrigued. I think Michael Shannon is a great actor and the rest of the cast seemed good too. Unfortunately I sat through a creature from the black lagoon movie from the 50's with a horrible 2 bit costume. I cannot believe how outrageous and over the top the silliness of this movie is. This is what the academy thinks is best picture? I read the reviews on this site and a lot of reviews are people giving this movie top scores because the director or some interpretation that not everyone gets or cares to get. If have to watch a movie to spin it a certain way for others, then it is an unwatchable movie. Any movie that wins best picture in mind should appeal to all demographics. The young and old should walk out of the theater, look at each other and say \"wow that was great\". If you walk out the theater and some people say \"yeah that was great because it represents...\", and the other half walk out feeling they were just robbed out of $12 bucks, then it should not win best picture. Yet another travesty for the academy. Too bad the general public does not give out the oscar. If we did, then this movie would not even nominated for anything but a over the top cheesy B movie. Extremely disappointed...AGAIN. Thanks academy for another joke you delivered on Oscar night."
"The Shape of Water is beautiful.
From the beginning to the end it just looks so beautiful. But beauty isn't worth anything if the rest of the package fails to submit.
About the writing: The Movie lacks a good plot. All you see here, has been done over and over again and again throughout the entire movie history. There is nothing new. All characters are plain and simple, easy to digest. The bad guy is a bad guy to bone, the good girl is a good girl to the bone. There are no large grey areas, conflicts or surprises.
About the overall plot. It's boring. It's really boring. Everything is so predictable, that I knew all that would come already before it would happen and that is kinda disappointing and sad.
I cannot recommend this movie, avoid it at best."
"One of the worst (mainstream) movies I've seen... let's say... in the past 6 months. The dialogues were terribly boring, the music going along with it annoying (especially as the movie switched to become a musical for a few moments) and basically it is a rip-off of Hellboy and Beauty and the beast. Only purpose seems to be, that having intercourse with another species should be socially accepted. Sodomy at it's best? Not even close. The ending was predictable and appears as one of those you have seen a 1000 times before. Oh, and ofc the Russians are evil. America HAS to point this out until every first grader actually believes it. Sure, the visuals in the movies have great moments, allthough it takes a step too far in making us belive, that you can flood an entire bathroom by simply stuffing a towel at the bottom of the door. Yeah, not convinced at all."
"Based on what had been said in some of the reviews and after having seen an interview with Octavia Spencer, I was anxious to see it. I will say there were so many opportunities for this to be a great movie, but when you have a villain with no redeeming qualities he's just mean. I enjoy a good sex scene as much as the next person, but I couldn't wait for our villain to finish with his wife fast enough. I wish I had waited to see it on tv with all the disturbing parts cut out."
"Movie started off promising and then slowly went very very strange. Basically women that falls in love with messed up lizard man and humps it's. The end."
"\"The Shape of Water\" is filmed by an artist but written by an immature man-child. It's a sort of \"Beauty and the Beast\" and \"Creature From the Black Lagoon\" mash up with some themes that Disney would target to an 8-year-old.During the opening scenes we see a naked female masturbating in a bath tub, which would seem to indicate the movie to follow is targeted towards a mature grown up audience. Instead, we get something on the same intellectual level that can be found in a book that teachers would read to 3rd graders.I guess the more liberal viewers will be ok with its portrayal of white, straight males as being the real monsters, no matter how clichéd and intellectually boring this has become. For some reason there's a heroic sidekick who seems unnecessarily gay, i.e., it serves no purpose to the plot other than to serve as a contrast to the cruel, uber-hetero alpha male and main antagonist portrayed by Michael Shannon.There's just enough sex, violence, and language to get an R rating, which would have been fine in a movie with a script that was mature enough to handle it. Its a real shame the script is so puerile because it's beautifully shot and looks great. In the end its hard to imagine this being enjoyable by anyone who reads above a first grade level or has maturity beyond a thirteen-year-old who gets titillated by a naked woman in the bathtub."
"I didn't enjoy the movie mostly because I didn't resonate with the plot . There was great acting though."
"Seen few mixed reviews on this movie, so let me add mine to the lot.
The length of the movie was no problem for me as I was drawn into the color spectrum picked for the whole background of movie. Yet, something very familiar was speaking to me and I was waiting for the moment of surprise or plot twist or just different story line, I guess. 
It reminded me couple of other Guillermo del Toro movies... Hellboy and El Laberinto del Fauno.
Can't shake the feeling the creature from this movie should be related to Abe Sapian ;) hence my expectation, maybe. And the villain characteristics very similar to Capitan Vidal and also some of the torture and injuries felt very familiar. 
Love the acting and choice of actors, it was not much surprise although Octavia shines like the gem she is as The Help ;). As I mentioned all very familiar through and through the whole movie despite the fact I was watching it the first time. Overall like it but didn't feel like new movie. In my eyes interesting collaboration would be Guillermo and M. Night Shyamalan on their own scarytale."
".....you won't get back. I lost 4 hours. Decided to rewatch this absurdity. Didn't help.Kudos for the music and very good job on the period - but the rest seemed strangely like a blend of every other sci-fi and fantasy film I've seen. The Creature From the Black Lagoon and Splash met and had an amphibian movie."
"The sets and colors used in this movie are stifling and uncomfortable. I could not possibly begin to breathe until the very end - the water scene in which Elisa and the monster are finally free.
The movie felt dusty, humid and cluttered thereby making the movie impossible to enjoy. As fantasy, I just could not get into this."
"If this movie was supposed to be a horror movie, then you can safely consider it comedy horror; and a BAD one at that."
"Sadly, I cannot share the public enthusiasm for this uninspiring film. The movie was predictable, the relationship was not plausible and the dialogue lacked depth."
"Take E.T., mash it up with the aesthetic sentiments of Amelie, throw in a dash of The Artist, top it all off with some amazingly open-minded attitudes toward bestiality and you have The shape of Water.Elisa Esposito is a cleaner at a government facility where top secret projects are kept. Her life is pretty hum-drum until one day she meets a creature from the deep at work and gives him an egg. She instantly falls in love with the beastie and talks her bestie Giles, an aging artist with relationship problems of his own, into helping her mount a rescue. Along the way she receives initially reluctant assistance from her workmate, Zelda, as well as the help of a kind-hearted Soviet spy named Dimitri.Visually, the movie is quite nice, the soundtrack was also very well chosen, but as a story the film seemed not to be able to make up its mind exactly what it wanted to be. The romance was rushed and never really felt believable, the best friend neighbor was only likeable sometimes, it seemed to want to make some sort of a social statement about male culture in the 50s, but this was only given, at best a superficial treatment; it kept toying with the idea of becoming a musical right up until it sort of did in a number that seemed as out-of-place, awkward and forced as the romance between Esposito and the creature from the deep.All in all I'd say that this would be one of those films to watch with friends some night for a laugh, but don't expect much more than unintended comedy, as it's otherwise an utter mess."
"Well, in our modern times it is enough to retell the story of The Beauty and the Beast or The Frog Prince to get a lot of pats on one's \"super-creative\" shoulder, and on top even some Oscars. 
Hmpf... Maybe I should quit my daily job and rewrite Cinderella - this time the Prince is still a human being (not sure maybe the prince should be a princess!?) but Cinderella lets say is a female Centaur and on top I serve this fine new inventive ueber-creative super-story with some (lots of) CGI-tricking. (note to myself: add some super-creepy evil white dudes! And don't forget to add some minorities, of course all good, intelligent and lovable!)Ah, I can already see myself standing before the finest of all Hollywood getting tons of Oscars and zillions of money filling my pockets. And all the famous wanna play in my next movie! Well, done Tweetienator! Finally , you made it!Tweetienator says: The Shape of Water - nothing special or innovative and far from the quality of Del Torro's real masterpiece Pan's Labyrinth. Not too bad but nothing really good. An Oscar or some for this flick - poor Hollywood."
"Where do I start, a very unlikeable lead actress, just talk for ffs. The bad guy was so over the top nasty it wasn't good. The monster was boring, they deserved each other cause they were so boring. I couldn't find anything enjoyable about this movie."
"\"The Shape of Water\" has four speeds: slow, slower, slowest and reverse. The film could lose one half hour. Towards the middle of the film the viewer becomes annoyed at its snail's pace.The story is original. The acting is excellent. If \"The Shape of Water\" is termed a horror film, it is because the viewer must sit through an extra 30 minutes of boring torture. How did this movie receive so many nominations and awards, including the Academy Award for \"Best Picture of the Year\"? Director Guillermo del Toro is apparently Hollywood's current golden boy."
"So imho, The Manfish was American Democracy, The bad evil guy who wanted to kill and dissect it, and liked it when people couldn't talk and liked shutting ppl up like his wife, Represented the Republican Party, The Russians speak for themselves!.....The Mute girl was the US and politicians keeping it's mouths shut 
 afraid to speak up . Eventually you see democracy and the US will not be defeated will rise from the dead and Save the muted population and help them live and breathe again!
I believe every movie like this has to have some intellectual message, like Disney and Pixar kids movies always carry some message for young minds, in fairness a woman having a relationship with a reptile is hard to swollow............If that was all this movie was, just a love story between a human and a fish It was a whole lot of nothing."
"Excellent Actors. Borrowed Characters. Attempt at Fantasy Interspecies Romance. Good atmosphere. Unoriginal plot. Tries too hard to be PC and violates its own standards. Runs just over two hours. I give it a 4 out of 10. Your mileage may vary.There are many characters and plot devices that are derived from other shows and movies. For instance, the Michael Shannon character Strickland is a reprise from his FBI agent character in Boardwalk Empire. Only here he is even more unlikable for reasons that are not really logical even within the context of the plot.
The theme of love between different beings with a magical tie-in is reminiscent of 'Avatar', along with the demonization of western 'white' mankind.
The 'creature' costume is very well done and very reminiscent of the similar creature in Hellboy. Hellboy was a much better integrated movie without the PC baggage.
The 'love' affair is of course nothing of the kind. It is, by the standards of the movie itself, an additional exploitation of an innocent creature by a human being."
"The main idea on minorities being outcasts and treated with no respect was well implemented by Guillermo but the whole movie screams with Hollywood vibes and cliches and this is very something I cannot digest."
"This is what will happen if beauty and the beast is thrown into the garbage and later being recycled by some homeless bloke. A woman fall in love with an ugly monster, -insert all the plot in beauty and the beast here-, they lived happily ever after.Boring, no depth, predictable plot, with a gallon of uncomfortable things."
"I have to say the film was beautifully shot and reflects an artistic approach with its use of color and texture. The actors all do a superlative job in their respective roles. The film has some delightful moments, like the scene of the dancing feet of Giles and Elise (shades of the film Chaplin?). Zelda is given numerous funny lines and she delivers them just right. The period details of architecture, food, clothing, appliances, furnishings, and television entertainment were well researched and gave a real sense of time and place. The director Guillermo del Toro described his film as a \"fairy tale for troubled times.\" To me it's the film that is troubled due to many negative elements and dark tone.Elise is introduced as a mute, introverted and sensitive woman who loves art, music and dancing. Then in a surprising scene we see the heroine fully nude masturbating in the bathtub. (Why?) Beneath her quiet façade is a sexually passionate woman, a woman who yearns for romance. For her romance finds its object in the Amphibian Asset. Unlike the original Beauty and the Beast story in which the beast is actually a human prince that had been cursed (and then restored), the Amphibian Asset is not human and never will be. The result is that sex between Elise and the Amphibian Asset really constitutes bestiality.The polar opposite of Elise is Strickland who is the real \"monster\" from del Toro's point of view. Strickland is really a caricature of all the worst characteristics the Leftist writer can imagine for a fundamentalist Christian. He is rude and sexually crude. He makes personal and moral observations based on the Bible, which reveal prejudices. He sees himself as the image of God and the Amphibian Man, not having that image, deserves to die. He is clearly superior to the hired help. He's the head of his house, his wife a dutiful housewife, ready to service her husband to take care of his needs.For all the effort given to make a \"period film,\" del Toro includes many elements without any basis in reality. The Asset is taken to an aerospace research laboratory, which of course did not exist in Baltimore in 1962. The reason for taking the creature there is unclear. The film features a five-star Air Force General, which did not exist at the time. The last five-star General died in 1953. An annoying detail is that the General's military ribbons were not in the correct order. The story focuses on the space race between the U.S. and the USSR. At that time NASA, a civilian agency, was in charge of space exploration, not the military. Yet there is no mention of NASA in the movie. The writer also gives supernatural powers to the creature, who is able to stimulate hair growth in Giles and heal him, and later heals himself and Elisa, as well as creating gills in Elisa so she can breathe under water. Maybe the Asset was really extraterrestrial.del Toro attempted to convey a certain message through the film, portraying from his point of view the lack social justice for issues like animals rights, gay rights and racial equality. He implies that nothing positive has changed in America since the 1960s while ignoring the fact that the country was run by Democrats in the 1960s. In the end he really wanted to proclaim his prejudice against traditional Christian values."
"The Shape of Water is, by all means, a beautiful film to look at. The set, art and photography are all award-worthy, but there's little else that is. I I feel like this film is throwing the political ideology of the liberal-left in my face and demanding that I too must believe that white, heterosexual men are all evil racist misogynistic homophobic a-holes...Ok, but other than the obvious political statement this film regurgitates distastefully, it is also supposed to be a love story, and I don't believe it, or feel any emotion other than empathy for our monster. I certainly don't understand why the sex with a monster was even written in the screenplay other than to try to say sex with different species of animals is groovy? The Shape of Water just came across as pushy, full of itself and a little weird, in a bad way. I guess this films not-to-subtile undertones skip hand-in-hand with Hollywood's modern mantra."
"As with any Guillermo del Toro movie, \"The Shape of Water\" looks gorgeous, and the rest is competently done, if not very interesting or original. I have always loved Sally Hawkins in anything she does, and she's very good here in the put-upon Cinderella role. But other than that, I can't describe this movie as anything more than pleasant. Doug Jones as the Creature doesn't get much screen time. Torture. Egg-eating. Glowy sex. That's about all he's allowed to do here. For all we know, he's manipulating Sally's character into freeing him. We learn next to nothing about him and spend no time in his POV. Richard Jenkins is fine as a sad aging gay stereotype. Michael Shannon brings bizarrely unnecessary nuance to a role that, in the end, is nothing more than the hothead bureaucrat we've seen a million times; the nuance goes nowhere. Octavia Spencer does just as expected, nothing special. Overall, this might as well be a Disney movie -- except for the nudity and sex, which are fine but which seem incongruous in a movie that otherwise, in terms of plot and theme, is nothing more than a children's fairy tale. You've seen this all many times before. The special healing powers of the Creature are also very old hat by now. And the ending is telegraphed leagues away."
"Predictable, oversentimental, clichéd. Sometimes those who have vested interest, manipulate the media to persuade us something is better than it actually is. And then we all feel a little awkward to admit what we really feel. To challenge that maybe it isn't as good as we are expected to agree. This is one of those films. Scratch the surface, just below the admittedly fine cinematography, and there is little depth to plumb. The story line is just about as predictable as they come. Each scene following on from the previous one in typical Hollywood fashion, is as expected, no surprises, no deeper, and original narrative. It follows the standard, old school Hollywood formula, satisfies the pre planned, easy watching storyline which asks no questions, doesnt challenge the viewer, just regurgitates the cloying, sentimental film-by-numbers formulae we have seen a thousand times before."
"I'm a sucker for romance films with happy endings, a big big fan, but I must rash out against, \"The Shape Of Water.\" The actors, directors everyone who worked on this film really did a great job. And don't get me started on forbidden love stories, I absolutely love them. But my issues with this movie are being a little grossed out when Sally Hawkins masturbates in the bathtub.. \"Really guys, that scene was a MUST, it couldn't of been edited out..?\" \"Or even shot differently, like a close up of her face whilst she's in the bathtub that would imply what she is doing.\" I do understand the \"Point\" the film is trying to make, she fell in love with him because she saw him as a loving kind gentle sole, his appearance & species didn't matter, & he fell in love with her for the same reasons as she did, but showing the 2 making love, again was kind of gross, usually after watching a forbidden romance movie, I gush over the leading male role. But there isn't going to be any #TeamTunaMan.. I certainly don't agree with IMDB's rating of 7.7/10 or it's 13 nominations..."
"Saw the Shape of Water and was baffled about all the praise...for it to win best picture means that an epic such as Dunkirk wasn't as good or better ...if the film didn't have such ominous undertones it would have been a cross between a comedy and old B movie...a mute woman meets a guy in an obvious rubber aquaman suit who looks something like the Creature from the Black Lagoon, It's love at first gulp ro the point where she fills her bathroom up with water to swim with the guy, I recall a scene such as this in a Laurel and Hardy film. We never know where the aquaman came from or what the govt. was doing with him and why Hollywood's resident pysch Mike Shannon is trying to kill him., I agree with Rex Reed about this hyped up turkey. Its win at the Oscars proves further that the Academy is as absurd as this film."
"This is a beautifully crafted film with some really strong character acting which it needs to be to cover up the utterly stupid plot."
"THE SHAPE OF THE WATER mixes different ideas and genres, as usual in Guillermo Del Toro's work. The film has a political side, with a progressive love story, a feminism look, and a speech about differences (aka : tolerance of others). However, the political speech is not as discerning and explicit as the naivety is overplayed. Nothing is so discerning as the domination precedes distress. On many occasions, the acts denounced are in tight plans with a highlighted text. In another words : there is no space of freedom for the acting. Because everything is calculated, so choreographed that it turns into autopilot. Exactly like the nostalgia and the tribute in cinema that Guillermo Del Toro wants to make. As the director loves the monsters, he certainly loves the 50s and 60s films. But he has not enough ideas to turn this tribute as a personnal style, he must to show extracts of several works. Even when there is rough references to specific films, we can't deny the strong resemblance between this creature and the one of the CREATURE OF THE BLACK LAGOON (Jack Arnold, 1954). It's pure nostalgia, primitive tribute where each idea (whether visual design or background) is a reproduction. The director don't spread his tribute, he's like a child who watches himself having fun with his favorite figurines. The soul of the film is only tribute and nostalgia. So, everything is wrong, with so much references in the editing (a bit to the KILL BILL). The one-upmanship could be the key word of this film, just by thinking of music (there is songs everywhere in the editing!). There is no need to drown the emotion and explain a whole atmosphere. The film is so drowned under the green filter, the director doesn't know how to leave it, and suggest some nuances of atmosphere. Even the title in the end credits is green. As much the baroque decor is particularly poetic and flamboyant, as the visual design is a total artifice. Filmed in studio, the film is full of the idea of \"pretend\" in the atmosphere. I will not waste my time talking about this ridiculous musical scene which is only an excess of nostalgia. Otherwise, the visual design forgets something essential : to avoid making the creature an object of fascination. Throughout the film, the visual design is used to standardize and multiply the motifs to return constantly to a point : talk about the creature. The context of Cold War is under-exploited, romance looks at itself unilaterally, the political message is also unilateral. Everything is purely symbolic. However, Guillermo Del Toro still can direct the sensuality and savagery of the body."
"Ugh...here we go again. I felt like I was being accosted by the overeager theme, all the while hoping for some romantic subtlety.As long as you don't indulge yourself in the expectation of any surprises in the plot or intricacy in the theme, it is entertaining. There is no small amount of effort trying to make a film of quality here, but being better than 80% is still pretty mediocre. The visuals are stunning. I also want to give full credit to whoever was in charge of casting. The ensemble and execution were very appealing and that alone is worth the watch. I know it is a rehash character, but I just can't look away from Octavia Spencer (Elisa's friend Zelda) and found myself looking forward to her lines. I am a sucker for Richard Jenkins in just about anything, but particularly when he wears his weakness like a crown. There is a certain frailness he is able to channel at will that is magnificent. You can easily picture his character (in scenes never filmed) alone in a room at night muttering \"How did I ever end up like this?\"Also, the convenient setting of 1962 does not excuse the tired caricature of straight white men. My gas tank is running low on collective guilt for the horrors of suburbia, and I wonder who is left to convince on this one? Aren't we all now singing a harmonious rendition of the hit song, \"Men (mostly white & straight) are Deplorable and Care Nothing for Love\"? I'll check my white privilege as I am sure that even calling out this ridiculous stereotype is going to have me called a racist by someone.I will concede that this film will be absolutely adored by a segment of the viewers, even the ridiculous dance scene. Go ahead and watch it on the slim chance that you may be one of those people. It really wasn't that far off, but in the end, it will fade away like so many other best picture winners that lack any sort of timeless quality."
"This film about a mute, tap-dancing woman who works as a cleaning lady in a dreary government lair and falls in love with a sea beast is one part Bjork's Dancer in the Dark, one part Amelie, and one part Free Willy. Ugh."
"Another remake. A Hollywood one: sugary, corny,seasoned with million effects and musical underlining. Some good performances... but really under the level of the poetical and naive original movie.And no, it is not the mentioned dutch short \"The Space Between Us\" (2015) It is the Soviet Sci-Fi Classic \"Chelovek-Amfibiya\" (1962), adapted from Sci fi novel by Alexander Belyaev.But what I do dislike more is not reading the name of Belyaev in the writing credits. \"Story: Guillermo del Toro\". Not near. Story: Alexander Belyaev (1928) Adapted by: Guillermo del Toro and Vanessa Taylor."
"I cant get why it won so many oscras especially in the same year with the 3 billboards... well this was almost a complete waste of time. The message is crystal clear because it made for idiots. It was not mysterious really easy plot, the end was totally predictable. It was quite long and a bit boring it had some really funny conversations tho. At one point the mute girl said that no one understood her and no one looked at her the way the fishman did becuse both of them are mute. :DD its like there is no other people with decent tolerance level or mute as well.. It's just a cheesy romantic movie for daydreamer 30year olds who still thinks the blond prince on the white horse still exist it just might look a bit different. still false advertisement"
"I am far from an expert, but I guess it is a worthy candidate for that prize."
"Let's put it this way, someone in front of me in the middle of the movie yelled \"I'm out.\" The woman next to me laughed during a different part and said to her husband, \"it was your idea to come here.\" This movie was so weird and cheesy, I am at a loss as to why it won anything."
"I usually don't watch films that receive oscars ( like indie films better) watched the trailer and ( don't like love stories either but like fantasy type movies) looked ok so I gave it a go. I honestly think it came of as comedic and would have worked better as that. Like others the story was boring and silly and so much fluff was added because it lacked a story. The creature looked bad for a decently shot film. I mean were'd she think it a good idea to have sex with it? Might it kill her, who knows what was lurking but when she derobes and goes in there wth?!? I don't think it's a 1 rating tho I'm in the same vein as the others problems with the film but it wasn't the worst movie I've seen and I watch tons of films. It was an ok film with lots of stupidity going on but not horrible.Don't know what else to say."
"Ha! What a terrible film. Where to start? It's very cheesy. It has a predictable story with no major arc. The characters all fit Hollywood tick boxes. The script is poor and linear. Overall. I was not impressed and consider this to be a poor film. The only thing that saves this cak is that it's filmed nicely."
"There have been countless depictions of unusual friendships that turn into full-fledged relationships depicted on the silver screen over the years. Think of 'Edward Scissorhands' or 'Her.' But the one that transpires in 2017's Academy Award-winning 'The Shape of Water' is something unlike we've ever seen, for better or worse (mostly for worse).At the core of 'Water' is the story of lonely mute Elisa Esposito (Sally Hawkins) who works the night shift as a janitor at a secret government research facility. She befriends her colleague Zelda (perennial Oscar nominee Octavia Spencer) and the two stumble upon an amphibious creature that is held captive in the facility. Elisa quickly develops a friendship with said creature, and thus begins a quest to free him, which becomes a much bigger production than anticipated.While on the surface, this is a love story (an unorthodox one, at that), there's a lot going on in 'Water.' There's a sub-plot involving a spy game with KGB agents, which makes sense given the Cold War backdrop, but the true antagonist is the facility's director, Richard Strickland (played masterfully by Michael Shannon), who is out for blood and to weaponize the creature against the Soviets. But the main focus is on the creature, which is understandable given director Guillermo del Toro's fascination with monsters. It is well done, CGI-wise, but that doesn't mean the film as a whole is amazing. In fact, 'Water' is your typical critically acclaimed Oscar bait whose boredom masquerades as beauty.Sure, the use of water in this film is kind of intriguing, with one scene in particular coming to mind involving a flooded bathroom. But the plot is so odd and out there. This is a case where being different with a capital \"D\" actually works against the film. It just exists - nothing to write home about, and surely not deserving of a best picture Oscar.'The Shape of Water' will not be remembered for years to come, and if it is, it will be for all the wrong reasons."
"A wonderful amalgamation of sumptuous production design, lush camerawork, composed direction & excellent lead performance, The Shape of Water continues Guillermo del Toro's fascination with monsters and is an unconventional story of love that's pure, perceptive & poetic.Set in 1960s America during the Cold War, The Shape of Water tells the story of a mute woman who works at a top secret facility as a janitor where she encounters a captured humanoid amphibian creature, with whom she forms a unique bond & later helps him escape from his captivity.Co-written & directed by Guillermo del Toro (best known for The Devil's Backbone, Pan's Labyrinth & Crimson Peak), of all the films that I've seen from the notable filmmaker, The Shape of Water is the weakest. Nothing about it is terrible actually but there is nothing about it that's memorable either. It's a typical love story between atypical characters that's crafted with affection, told with tenderness & decorated with splendid set pieces. There is a warmth to their blossoming romance at first but it becomes monotonous during the second half. That dance scene in particular is absolutely cringeworthy.There isn't much to complain in the technical department though. The set pieces in Guillermo del Toro films are usually so finely detailed & refined that much of it is often mistaken for computer generated imagery. Brilliantly utilising the shades of green, Cinematography give its images a luminous quality & fairy tale vibe.Editing calmly directs its different subplots towards the same outcome but pacing is a bit on the slow side, plus there are moments that could have used a few trims. Alexandre Desplat's score resonates a tenderness of its own with its serene tracks though the songs (both original & incorporated) fail to uplift the whole narrative.Coming to the performances, The Shape of Water packs a reliable cast amongst whom Sally Hawkins impress the most in what's a silent rendition that's packed with sincere emotions. Doug Jones adds yet another non-human character to his collection while Octavia Spencer, Richard Jenkins, Michael Stuhlbarg & Michael Shannon provide good support in their given roles.On an overall scale, The Shape of Water is beautiful to look at and makes splendid use of the director's trademarks but it definitely isn't one of del Toro's finest films. The subplots are more interesting than the main story at hand here, but Hawkins does well to keep us invested in her character's journey to an extent. In short, The Shape of Water is an above average creature feature wrapped in a pretty package."
"Perhaps it's me, or maybe I missed something, but I totally fail to see the point of this meaningless film, nor can I understand how it won any Oscar's. Sally Hawkins is good in the lead role, but nothing, but nothing else scores in this poor, almost childish, movie which ranks as possibly the most pointless I have seen this year. A big miss for me."
"Okay, first, the good stuff: The sets (which deserve an Oscar) and the cinematography were eye-poppingly-amazing. Desplat's score was moving and beautiful. Richard Jenkins stole every scene he was in - as always.Now, the bad stuff: Sally Hawkins masturbating in the bath every single morning while the eggs are boiling (hence the title of this review) added nothing to the story. Michael Shannon buying a new car added nothing to the story. The Astaire-Rogers, song-n-dance, black-n-white dream sequence completely ruined any magic that had been established.
Look, I know this is a fantasy, but, fish sex, really? Not only that, she went to work and played kiss-n-tell, describing the fish dick to Octavia Spencer (who, sadly, has become typecast.) The writing was just weak. Every character was a cliched, cardboard cutout. The love story read like a bad Harlequin Romance paperback meets The Creature from the Black Lagoon meets Splash meets Mr. Limpet.Overall, I would say, if you are a serious filmophile, see this for the eye candy. That's all there really is to this fantasy.
If you are a lonely, looking-for-Mr. Right, 40-something dreamer, this could possibly be your favorite movie of all time."
"Just an odd movie. Definitely different, but lacked believability, if you accept the premise."
"I went into this movie with an open mind, assuming it was going to be good but not great.In short, a fish monster and a mute cleaner form a romantic attachment, and the plot thickens.... (I wish)It was just obvious, painstakingly obvious. No real twists, far fetched plot, one dimensional bad guy etc etc etc
I felt physically angry that GDT had made such an average movie, especially judging his previous works.It's not awful, and maybe you'll love it like half the population do - it just feels sadly average, like I've seen a million times before. 5/10"
"I have no idea how this movie managed to get so many rave reviews. To me, it is just an unoriginal movie with one-dimensional characters. Both the setting (modern fairy tale set in hostile reality) and character design (specifically the merman) appear to have been recycled from Del Toro's previous movies ''Pan's labyrinth'' and ''Hellboy'', respectively. The characters' motivations and personalities were extremely one-note, just so they can serve the plot - one stereotypical example is 'the bad guy' (why is he acting the way he does? what is his motivation apart from wanting to appear manly and dominant? does he not have any redeeming qualities whatsoever (which would make him more believable)?). The love story seems to be a sort of a modern-day retelling of 'Beauty and the Beast', however, I did not feel any chemistry between the two lead characters. How did their relationship progress from her feeding him boiled eggs to a sexual and emotional connection? I can't help assuming this movie was supposed to be way longer but some inappropriate editing took out the scenes that would help us make sense of how this inter-species love story developed. The fact that we barely learn anything about the merman is not adding to him being a sympathetic character or facilitating an emotional involvement in the plot at all. I found myself not caring about this movie at all and I am surprised that critics have described it as 'heartfelt' and 'romantic'. I'd say, watch 'Pan's Labyrinth' instead."
"The camera work, graphics, music and the acting are all top-notch. Unfortunately the plot is kinda ho-hum and makes no sense in parts. There's a few really inappropriate scenes involving graphic sex, dialogue regarding body parts, a scene involving a cat, graphic violence... they added nothing at all to the story. I found myself shaking my head like 5-6 times saying \"why did you need to include that?!?\""
"Sketchy is the first word that comes to my after seeing Del Toro's the Shape of Water; a film of crude story telling, gimmicky characters, and obvious direction.
How on earth did this win over the Academy.This rendition of the beauty and the beast tale, pairs a mute janitor with a captive swamp monster. Bathed in an oversaturated color palette, the movie looks and plays like a comic book where the characters have no free will and are mostly representational, including the bible thumping villain, who (for no needed reason) also makes a perverted sexual move on our protagonist. Del Toro's decision to make the heroine mute is so that she can learn to communicate with the creature via sign language. If you stop to think about it , you don't need to be speechless in order to communicate with hand gestures. Just imagine all the things that Eliza would say to the creature if she could speak, Maybe she could even make a couple of jokes, which would be a blessing to this rather humourless enterprise. There is a greater feeling that Eliza is made mute. cause she needs to be vulnerable and sympathetic. The romantic relationship feels rushed and has no shape, in fact the whole movie feels a good half hour shorter than it should be. It's possible that Del Toro came under studio pressure to fit the story into two hours, but as a result, certain important devices like Eliza's strange sexual fetish are barely illuminated.It is bewildering that a del Toro movie could have a creature as boring as this one. The texture is there, but the character is not. Bland in personality and largely inanimate, his primary function is to be a love interest, in a love story that is hard to relate to. Admirable set decoration is the only highlight of the movie."
"*SPOILERS*
The movie takes 20 minutes of introducing us to the main character and her life. The beginning provides a few laughs, sets the tone, but it's way too stretched out and contains useless details that will never pay off later. Maybe they realized that they bored the audience, so they jump right into the fish creature romance. There's a disgusting and possibly dangerous alien fish creature chained in a laboratory and the main character starts immediately feeding it and flirting with it! I get it, it's perceived as different from the norm, which is a symbol for the minorities that are featured in the movie (gay, mute, black) and all of them work together in the end. But it looks like a monster that could easily be featured in a horror movie and the script skipped any rational initial caution, followed by a slow build up of sympathy and intimacy. Instead, the movie wanted me to be invested and accepting from the beginning and it didn't work for me one bit. Famously, there is the scene where the lady is screwing with the fish, which is just... wrong. The bad guys are so stereotypical bad, it's really cheesy. Again, the symbolism is clear: it's a commentary on the culture of the 1960ies (and possibly still today). But can you really judge people of a former decade with today's morals? Anyway, the movie does not do anything intellectually challenging with this. Instead, the third act ended completely predictable with a showdown that reminded me a lot of E.T. The movie is incredibly well shot and the acting is mostly solid ( a bit over the top on the villains' part) but it does not live up to it's full potential. Of course this won the best picture votes from the older Academy members, because it briefly shows a couple of old movie scenes and it's nostalgic for the late 1950ies / early 60ies."
"The following is my opinion: Watch 'THE SPACE BETWEEN US\", a 2015 Indie short by: Marc S. Nollkaemper. Then decide if Guillermo del Toro stole this story. First of all, I want to mention that the Dutch filmmaker kindly shut down the growing talk of plagiarism but...It's still pretty Screamingly Obvious. And, it bothers me that Guillermo del Toro accepts the credit and financial gain from what is really, a story 
 written and directed by a STUDENT filmmaker. 
 \"The Space Between Us\" has haunted me since I watched it in 2015. And, when I saw the movie poster I initially thought \"The Shape of Water\" was a longer version. You'll notice the cover art for \"The Shape of Water\" is the final shot in the original film. When I realized they were made by different people, I began to look into other de Toro \"creations\". I found that the bulk of his successful work, i.e., everything from Hellboy, to Blade, to the Pale Man are based, and not loosely, on someone else's work. Comic books, novels, Victorian short stories, indie movies and Japanese mythology like Y'golonac and Tenome, to name some of his source material. Not an original idea in the bunch, just the addition of certain components and/or maybe a costume change.
 The original is more beautiful than del Toro's remake, because there's no unnecessary sex and violence. The addition of sex and violence was just the easy way to lengthen the movie. But, it shifted the focus from the lead characters shared oppression to a vaguely crass love story. Destroying some of the depth the story was intended to communicate and instead creating the chance to titillate the audience with intimacy between the leads and add violence in defence of their love. del Toro took the easy way when fleshing out the movie, as the genius was already there in the original storyline. 
 I think there's an obvious reason del Toro chose to \"create\" this movie, it fits his talent for taking a solid mature plot and/or character(s) and repackaging them for public consumption. A very useful talent and, admirable if you acknowledge that's what you're doing. del Toro has a reputation for creating original works, which I believe, hasn't been fairly earned. Rebranding an existing creation to develop marketability and pump up a bottom line, are far different talents versus originating something new that prior to you, didn't exist in ANY form. Frankly, in the case of this movie, it's the classic story of a young student having their work stolen by an older person with cash and reputation. This particular student has been smart enough not to fight a very expensive uphill battle but, is spinning it into something positive for his career. Another testament to Marc S. Nollkaemper's brilliance.
 Bottom line, moving forward I'll search out anything Marc S. Nollkaemper is involved with, as he obviously has the potential to become a major talent. And, I'll avoid anything connected to Guillermo del Toro because I no longer trust that the work is genuinely his. I can't support this type of blatant theft of another artist's ideas as it's already tough enough for an artist to hold onto to intellectual property in today's world. Lastly, I know there are those who will still say, there's no relationship between the films...Just watch them both in the order they were released, the truth is pretty straightforward."
"The Shape of Water is not a bad film and definitely does not deserve to be ignored but it is not that good either. Something is simply missing. Guillermo del Toro, Sally Hawkins, Michael Shannon, Octavia Spencer and Richard Jenkins are all masters at their work and deserve all the respect. Direction is good and photography lush. The story itself however, is a romantic fairytale and does not go very deep, it could move and affect the viewers much more if done differently, the characters are pretty one-dimensional, we have the good girl, funny friend, another old funny friend and the villain. Throughout the film the story is trying to present many social issues and even though the film is set in the 1950's, many of the issues are still reflected in our society today. We have racism, sexism but the main thing that the film is trying to tell us is that it is important to accept and love anyone who is good, no matter how different they are. It is a beautiful message but it all feels a bit to forced, it could have been more subtle. The main problem is that the entire film feels like a big Oscar bait. It seems to have worked quite well. Another thing about the Oscar nominations, Michael Shannon should not have been left out. All performances are good but his especially stands out. Could have been really good and it is a shame since there is so much talent involved in the film."
"I've had some expectations regarding this movie, but I was very disappointed. In my opinion it was a fiasco. It supposed to be a romance/drama, but what a romance!! What it so romantic about a woman who masturbates excessively in her bath tub, before going to work, while she boils her eggs? Or about a man who is brutally having sex with his wife, covering her mouth with his bloody hand when she wants to speak? Or about a man-fish creature who is tortured with electric shocks when he's in chains? Or when the same creature decapitates a cat and eats the head? Or when a woman picks two chopped fingers on the floor and put it on a lunch paper bag, and the same fingers turn violet/black and are plucked from the hand? And, of course, the violence, the shootings, the dirty talk and the blood. A LOT OF BLOOD! If all these things are romantic, then Jane Austen is a sci-fi novelist...However, the soundtrack is nice, some images and the retro atmosphere of the 60's are interesting, but the script has big gaps. I consider I've lost two hours of my life. Don't make the same mistake..."
"CONS: Dialogues suffer from vocabulary deficiency, most of the characters are walking tv tropes and stereotypes (except for the failed artist, he is a charming lad even though he's a neurotic artist stereotype), deus ex machina trope took almost a quarter of the film's rating, genre is inconsistent, many scenes weren't thought through, abusing the excuse that it's an art film to get away with bad screenplay.PROS: explicit but suitable pornographic scenes (a taboo in film industry), excellent camera and scenography, spiffy design for fishman, a few quirky comedic scenes, probably a metaphor for being in love with a person from marginalized minorityUnfortunately, Del Toro blew this one and left me quite disappointed. Honestly, it would deserve that much awards if it was done better than Pan's Labyrinth. Otherwise, it was way too overhyped. NOT RECOMMENDED TO ANYONE THIRSTY FOR GOOD SCREENPLAY."
"IDK why this movie is so recommended, its surely good, but nothing special, and much less anything new. 
Follows a very obvious and plain plot, it's very predictable and at the end even fairly boring."
"I can't quite decide if this tries to be E.T. The Water Freak, Free Ugly Willy or maybe both. The story is practicly the same as those two combined.
I like to see something new, when I put on a movie, not recycled blockbusters. And the interspecies sex is as nausiating to imagine, as well as it is unneccesary for the story. In fact, it ruined it.
Only plusses I can think of is Shannon as an excellent villain, and the pro-gay approach. That avoided a total disaster."
"Although this movie has been a mediatic racket, I must say that they are more words than what the film really is, without a doubt Guillermo del Toro is not a bad director, but I think media and some nomination for some prices have made an ocean out of a glass of water.The movie itself is not bad, it is somewhat slow, but had to be like that since it is more a romantic plot than nothing else, but it has good things of which we can talk.Let's start asking ourselves: is it a movie to win the Oscar for the best movie?the answer is a NO, and to give it would only confirm the little validity that the academy has to choose the winner, however I believe that this film deserves at least a nomination for photography, in terms of music, costumes, script, I do not think it deserves nomination since there was nothing special about these.
Let's talk about photography, Possible oscarThe photography is based on a hard lighting, based on making the environment and the shapes stand out, giving them the greatest visual importance, and that is this film, a visual guide in a time not so past, where the black and white issues, where the sexual taste were taboos, which shows you a perspective of an impossible romance.Takes in its development good camera angles, although in some shots I think it took more movements with dolly, that would have given a better reach to the scene, open shots predominate, always guiding the viewer as we mentioned earlier that this will enter more in the environment than in the history of a romance. Even the lighting that is the same from beginning to end fits perfectly in each shot.So you should watch the movie, Yes, you would love it, depends , if u like romance drama yes, if your more into a interesting story, the answer is no."
"I dont like this film as Pan's Labyrinth or Pacific Rim.Because of this very big plot holes : 1 - They are working a secret goverment facility but all cleaners have free pass to all rooms.2 - Why the cleaners all the time in facility ? They are everywhere and everytime and noone couldn't find id akward.3 - Why Dr. Hoffstetler tell the true before he die to Strickland? It's not make sense.4 - Elisa wrote to the calendar : Rain/Dock And Strickland find it very easy. Like \"We are in dock.. come and find us\" Really? Seriously ?5 - Why they wait for the rain. They have sea. They can release him to sea not the canal..Okay the colors, music and some scenes is so beatifull. But in the first shot it remembered me Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain. Same color palette.Im sorry but this is the worst film of Guillermo del Toro after the Mimic for me.."
"The Faberge Egg: A thing of undoubted beauty, extremely costly but serving no real purpose.So it is with The Shape of Water.Constantly Guillermo del Toro leaves me disappointed. Pan's Labrynth especially and now this much hyped 'masterpiece'. Both miss the target by some distance for me. (I'll give you, he nailed it in both Cronos - a long time ago now - and Hellboy.)There's much to like about The Shape of Water (but NOT the music which is standard fare and I'm puzzled as to why it won the BAFTA). The design is superb, it really is a sumptuous feast both in period detail, cinematography and mood and the sets are great.Sally Hawkins is fine in the role of a mute who falls in love with a fishy 'monster' but why, oh why, does she need to get full frontal naked and masturbate in her bath in the opening scenes of the movie. Wholly gratuitous.Octavia Spencer puts in a decent shift in the supporting female role but, oh my gosh, this is not an Oscar-worthy performance. (Exactly the same can be said about the mystifying nomination for Mary J. Blige in Mudbound - I'll leave you to your own conclusions on why these were Academy nominated.)Both the male leads are on form; Michael Shannon as the nasty finder and torturer of the fish man and Richard Jenkins as Hawkins' neighbourly friend and the narrator; an alcoholic, cat-loving, adman fallen on hard times.My biggest criticism lies with the script, or more correctly, the plot which has holes the size of the budget (actually, on checking it was only $19.4m, so my Faberge analogy is stretched a little. Author's note: Faberge Eggs sell from around $6m to $33m.)OK it's a fantasy movie but it's pretty silly really and stretches credibility throughout.I wanted to like this, I really did and I don't dislike it, it's just so fundamentally flawed that its 13 Oscar nods verge on ludicrous. I don't think it will take home more than three (I wouldn't give it any with a possible exception for design) - Best Movie most certainly should not be one of them."
"Had they pushed through with just saccharine caring and sweetness for the creature to help it escape, it would have been 6 stars. cast is great. but come on - it's beyond me why people loved the movie (and my wife & daughter did so i may be the odd one here!) - i get the allegorical story- and the individual character stuff, and the cool set design stuff - but you lost me on the physical relationship between them. sorry, i just didn't see the need. keep it mental, and the film works better for me.and sadly, this will likely win the oscar over other more deserving movies!"
"It was a sweet story and the compassion and love was beautiful until the inter-species sex scene. It's not out of being prudish or anything but everyone has a 'line' and mine would be sex between a woman and the creature from the black lagoon.I found the dialogue tediously boring, too. \"Every...sentence...seemed to be something...that...had many...unnecessary...words...that...made it take...a very...long ...time to get...the point across.\"I really wanted to love this movie, I will say that I 'liked' it but human and alien getting jiggy with it just blows any sort of 'sweetness' of this love story."
"I like a good thoughtful, sensitive and even romantic film and that what I was expecting here, but the thing is absolutely skeletal. Del Toro makes it look great, but he simply does not do enough to truly tell the story. As a result, it comes off as being overly long and with a truly featherweight result. You can see the ending within the first thirty minutes and the rest is about waiting for it to be over. There is artistry in the look of the film, but the telling is utterly anemic. I can think of a dozen directors that could have done a better job. For an intelligent audience, this comes off as being a film that wishes it were intelligent but doesn't know how to pull that off."
"My apologies, I honestly am a HUGE fan of Guillermo Del Toro, I just found this movie to be very one sided. I loved the fact that she had someone to connect with, I just found that all the other characters were basically conversating to themselves. luckily, she knows sign language which was a big help to communication, I just think that they could have done a little bit better with their connections"
"A love story between two worlds, two completely different life forms,The Shape of Water(2017).There are two types of people for this movie, either you will completely love it or you will completely hate it. If you have patience enough to read my review, you will know on which type I stand my ground.Basically, it's all about bestiality cause any creature you want have sex with except for human is called bestiality. A mute girl stealing confidential GOVT research subject from a facility with ease, little to no effort, it IS really hard to believe where everyone has access to this place, including low class cleaners.Story didn't work for me for single moment. A secret research subject that can change the universe or wars between two countries or other important things, since 5 star military personnel were assigned to it and secret agents were involved, things didn't blend at all, specially with the subject importance and easy-peasy lemon-squeezy type of security system. Now you may ask, why was there a secret tunnel behind research subject that leads to all the way to loading dock? Anyone can secretly get in to that tunnel and spy on the researches?! Also why wasn't a single piece of surveillance camera in that long tunnel where as surveillance cameras are seen everywhere except for in woman's locker room? When they brought in the amphibious creature to their apartment, no one noticed it? Also when that creature ran away, also no one noticed it? There was no effort to find that creature also. Story fell flat here. Either they show Richard Strickland (played by Michael Shannon) in his home or looking at his fingers pushing pus out of this dead fingers or smelling it. A 5 star military person is assigned to this research and ordering some guy with no backup or support to find this creature is beyond laughable.Also they have readable key-cards to enter in the facility office but simple paper made id card (anyone can fake it if they want) that gets verified by guards to enter in the building that leads to loading dock directly, where anyone can enter the facility through that tunnel without having any readable key-cards? Are you kidding me?There were many fine moments in this movie but since I didn't like this movie, focused on cons only.Sorry but I didn't buy its story at all. There were a lot of plot holes, errors from technical to direction and lastly, whole story was faulty at some point. I don't mind watching fictional movies or reading them but one must have to make it believable.Sex and masturbation scenes were completely unimportant and unnecessary. Also Giles (played by Richard Jenkins) as a Gay man was completely unnecessary. This didn't put a single change or affected the story except for empowering LGBTQ movements in real life, which is nice but not for a movie where director don't know how to use that as a element for the story.Story : 5/10
Acting : 6/10
Cinematography : 6.5/10
Special Effects : 6.5/10
Enjoyment : 5/10
Character Development : 4/10Is it really good for winning the Oscar? Hell No! I have no hate for Guillermo del Toro, he is best known for making cheesy stuffs and loved a lot of things that came out of his hands. This movie is not for everyone but made for some special bunch of people who won't find it sick but I did.My final verdict, I give this movie : 5/10"
"This is not a SciFi movie. The you look beneath the surface (no pun intended) it is a conventional love story with cliched structures. Obviously the movie owes a lot to 50's B movies (one especially comes to mind) and you can't knock the acting. But the plot and direction is simplistic and it takes from otherwise strong performances, especially from Sally Hawkins, who plays the lead role. See it to see why it just won best film but don't expect to be blown away."
"Don't be mistaken, this movie deserves every Oscar it got.
Not for being any good, but for being exactly what the audience and all the mainstream was expecting of an Oscar winning Movie.
It's so political correct on his fundament, you realize within 15 minutes of it being on screen that it won't come up with anything that doesn't fit in todays mainstream thinking. It may look and be strange sometimes, but in it's core it's so utterly disappointing mainstreaminsh and correct and stereotypical it almost hurts.BUT, that makes it a distinctive movie of our times, a reflection of our current society. It wants to be strange and sometimes even disturbing but it doesn't have an impact and it doesn't have a soul. It tries hard, but it fails to come up with new thinking, new ideas or anything that would have an impact on me as I watch it.Best example is the sex scene. It's useless, not shocking, just strange. Trying so hard to be something else it's doomed to be the same all over again.Many good things in this movie, no doubt, but it's also far from being a future classic simply for the lack of a statement.
I'd call it disappointing."
"Del Toro's gift for effective story-telling cannot be denied. However, the film plays perfectly into mainstream Hollywood sensibilities, does not have a profound artistic vision, and fails to challenge the audience in any meaningful way. It has the quintessential villain in the liberal cultural imagination today - a racist, sexist, ableist, psychopathic white man in the 60s. He lives in a bourgeois suburban neighborhood and has the quintessential white nuclear family. The fact that he is made to exhibit psychopathic behaviors is of course a way to obscure the irreducibly cultural, structural, and political conditions that the film purports to problematize. The equally cut-and-dry story is about people living at the margins of society bonding over their mutually subjugated status. The self-congratulatory moralistic undertone of this film suspends any need for serious cultural reflection. Shown to conservatives, the film is unlikely to have any converts to progressive politics. Shown to liberals, it will only confirm their pre-established identitarian convictions. Sprinkled with some gratuitous violence, it is the perfect candidate for the Oscars - a polished, glib, pandering, ostensibly radical fairy tale that ultimately does not have any enduring contribution to an already mediocre culture."
"Having finally seen this film now, I do find it to be vastly overrated, while at the same time it became perfectly clear why this won the Best Picture award last year, as it comes off as typical Oscar bait.THE SHAPE OF WATER is basically the quintessential del Toro film - beautiful on the outside and crafted with great attention to visual detail, but shallow and formulaic in terms of substance. It's a fairy tale, a narrative consistently painted in black and white with its empowerment of all possible sorts of minorities in a conservative 1950s setting.My biggest problem with the film was its lack of real emotion. The whole romance felt clumsy and unbelievable. While it might have been plausible for the female protagonist to save this merman from certain death, them falling in love was just forced. A mute woman, scared of most men, suddenly offers herself to a humanoid fish? And her work colleague doesn't think that's weird at all? These offputting scenes did nothing for me except for making me feel uncomfortable.Again, just like with CRIMSON PEAK, del Toro made a good looking, yet strangely unemotional feeling film - they also both share scenes with explicit violence that kind of interfere with the narrative's tone. Some directors seem to struggle with conveying palpably emotion in their films, and besides Christopher Nolan, del Toro appears to be one of them."
"Highly overrated movie with mostly no surprise, forgettable acting and disappointing visuals. Loved Shannon's performance and Del Toro's depiction of Strickland though, both bold and so cliche that you can't take your eyes off that character."
"This was not at all what I thought it was going to be but I watched it all regardless. Very strange but actually not a bad film really."
"There are some actors and directors that can do no wrong in the eyes of The Academy and serious critics. Guillermo del Toro is definitely one of those directors. Don't get me wrong , he has made some very good films but sadly , in my opinion , The Shape of Water is definitely not one of them.
In the hidden high security government laboratory where she works, lonely Elisa is trapped in a life of isolation. Elisa's life is changed forever when she and co-worker Zelda discover a secret classified experiment on a water based man like creature. Elisa finds she is falling in love with a creature that others want dead.I really do not know what all the fuss was about with this film. Sure , Sally Hawkins and Michael Shannon are good but they usually always are. This had the feel of an average story that you might have seen on an episode of The Twilight Zone . For a Del Toro film the special affects were very average , almost like a B movie from back in the day. Perhaps that was what he was trying to achieve ?
Why this is has been nominated for 13 Oscars is a mystery to me because this film was average at best."
"Guillermo del Toro directs and co-writes with Vanessa Taylor what would turn out to be the Best Picture Academy Award Winner for 2017. A much loved film that's not without dissention in certain quarters, it's a picture that warrants dissention but it should be noted that just because someone doesn't like it, that doesn't make it a bad film. I'm certainly in the camp that finds it over praised, even annoyingly disappointing, whilst appreciating many of the facets within its production.Story in simple terms is a Beauty and the Beast like fable where Sally Hawkins' mute cleaning lady Elisa Esposito falls in love with a captured Amphibian Man. Amphibian Man is known by the government types as The Asset, and as the Cold War rises and 60s paranoia takes a hold, the American big wigs want to vivisect the special species to learn from it. Elisa, after courting \"The Asset\", enlists the help of close friends and plots to free the creature from its captivity in the underground medical bunker labyrinth place.Now as simple as that sounds, there is more to it than that, del Toro and Taylor whilst enveloping the pic in a fantasy realm feel, ensure messages are thrust hard at the viewers. Be it the racial disharmony, the quest for different walks of life finding love with each other, the cry for humans to stop being bad and killing things because they don't understand them, torture is evil and etc etc. It's all right there in your face and we get it. So plot maybe simple but for sure there's a lot being said in the narrative.Yet as great as it looks, and it's superbly acted by Hawkins, Michael Shannon, Richard Jenkins and Octavia Spencer, it just to me loses its way come the mid-point, getting daft and even getting a little icky into the bargain. I have no problem with improbabilities and outrageous contrivances here, this is del Toro painting one of his fantastical worlds - only on Earth in the early 60s! But the pay off is poor, hinging on a twist that's not only ridiculous, but insulting as well because otherwise the pic would be very troubling indeed. No art deco eye orgasms or vibrant characterisations can compensate for a film that runs out of steam.That said, I was glad to have watched it, there's even a possibility I could return to it in the future - this is very good film making. But it's not a great film by any stretch of the imagination and not for the first time in the Academy's long history, many are baffled by their choice of Best Picture winner. 6/10"
"Guillermo del Toro is known for the weird and his style. But this thing, if you want to call it a movie, barely rates a 6 for me.The acting is excellent, and has good production values, but that's pretty much it. The story is too predictable. The black lagoon creature is sympathetic, but barely so. The love story is hard to accept on suspension of disbelief, as well as the idea that the portrayal of government ineptness on this scale. And anyone who couldn't predict the outcome would have to be seriously stupid. Its as if del Toro decided he wanted to do a darker version of the Tom Hanks, Daryl Hannah \"Splash\" movie from 30 plus years ago. It's watchable but fair at best. And thats the best that can be said for it."
"I'm not going to smash this film with a super-low rating, but this is where my patience with Oscar nominated movies sometimes runs out.When I pause a movie half-way through to take a break, for whatever reason, it's a bit of a dud IMO. What I couldn't do was suspend reality at one moment but accept the endless possibilities the next, or tolerate the constant switches between plausible and 'not a chance'. I couldn't decide whether I was watching a 1950's detective/horror movie or some sort of crazy fantasy epic, and the music was super-really-boring too and didn't enhance the film or draw me into it at all, and the strange need for nudity which wasn't necessary either, and which turned a rather wacky kid's film into something bordering on absurd and failed noire, which ultimately left me cold because I didn't find it loving, erotic or stimulating.It does have some beautiful cinematography, great acting, interesting scenes and other enchanting aspects to it, so not a super-low rating from me, just miss-ably average Oscar nominee material."
"One of the most hauntingly erotic scenes of 50s cinema is the suggestive underwater pas de deux between Julie Adams and Ricou Browning (as the Gill Man) in CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON. Director Gillermo del Toro's THE SHAPE OF WATER was obviously inspired by that image when he conceived of his Adult Fairy Tale. And, adult it is, minutes in Sally Hawkins (Elisa) strips full frontal naked and masturbates in a bathtub. Message: Leave the kiddies at home.
Elisa works at a mysterious government facility where a creature from the Amazon has been taken. Credited as Amphibian Man (Doug Jones in a superb full body costume with some CGI touches), the creature is under the watchful eye of stern Richard (Michael Shannon), while also being experimented on by Dr. \"Bob\" Hoffstetler (Michael Stuhlbarg). Elisa is mute, and her only friends appear to be a co-worker Zelda (Octavia Spencer) and a lonely man in her building, Giles (Richard Jenkins). Elisa bonds with the Amphibian Man (think a distaff mermaid fantasy). When it becomes obvious to Elisa (and Dr. Hoffstetler) that the government has bad intentions for the monster, a conspiracy is hatched to save the beast.
In outline form, this all works very nicely. And, the Beauty and the Beast story-line is lyrically performed. Unfortunately, del Toro and co-writer Vanessa Taylor layer on a lot of layers - and, not all for the better. The movie is set in the early-60s in order to play off of Cold War tensions with the Russians. It gives the movie some obvious villains, and, setting it long ago adds to Elisa's fairy tale fate.But, Shannon's Richard isn't just a tough security supervisor, but, a sexual deviant, bigot and a psychopath. Sure, in 1962 there was racism but, what does it really add to the movie to have a lunch counter scene (at one point Zelda is even referred to as \"The Help\" (I'm not kidding))? They toss in sexual prejudice and physical disabilities discrimination for good measure. Yes, the point is that Elisa, Zelda, \"Bob\" and Giles are outsiders, and therefore they are the only ones that can \"understand\" the monster. It's not so much the symbolism but the inelegance and heavy-handedness of how it's presented that is at issue here. Most crucially, it detracts from the core story.Hawkins is a wonderful actress. The mute may be a bit of a cliche in these kinds of stories, but she gives it a soulfulness that is entrancing. Jenkins and Spencer are reliably sturdy, but, Stuhlbarg (also fine in the current CALL ME BY YOUR NAME) is quite exceptional presenting the duality of his role as \"Bob\". Shannon is one of our most commanding actors, but his part isn't written (or directed) with much finesse. He dominates the picture, rather than supports it. As noted, the makeup is excellent, and the other effects are subtle but effective. Alexander Splat's music is sweet, but, sometimes it doesn't gel with the harshness of the scenes it's played against. Dan Austen's photography is excellent.THE SHAPE OF WATER is decent, but flawed. I have no particular issue with an R-Rated fantasy, but, here it doesn't seem necessary - or relevant. We've all seen more wholesome Beauty & The Beast/Mermaid stories before (astute genre viewers will also see homages to King Kong and other films). And, the essential base of the story with Elisa IS quite sweet. But, other than the frank nudity, all the other R-Rated elements are side points (cursing, gore and a gratuitous sex scene with Richard that only is there to highlight one particular fetish). Movies like UNDER THE SKIN and Almodovar's THE SKIN I LIVE IN were steeped in mature themes and imagery that were integral to their core, but, in SHAPE they seem extraneous. Hawkins and Amphibian Man make for a charming daydream, too bad its too often woken by interruptions."
"The worst Oscar Best Picture ever. With the rhythm of literary and artistic films, half of the superhero films are deduced. The useless details, the dumb woman's unreasonable response to the monster, and the absence of any underlying emotional lines, retro color matching and obscure narrative can not hide the extremely empty core."
"The film has it's highs, such as cinematography, the strong acting by almost all the cast - Octavia Spencer superb - and the brilliant Del Toro. Anyways, the argument is very weak, even for a fairy tale. 
The romance is absolutely not convincing, you do not fell empathy for both the beast nor the - not so much - beauty.
Not a bad film, far from that. But don't get mistaken by the overload of oscar's nominations."
"This movie was so gorgeously filmed; I loved the beauty aspect of it. Where it lacked was in the romance between woman and fish-man. I so wanted to feel some sense of emotion for this \"couple.\" First of all it's a man's fantasy. The woman is naked in much of the film and masturbates every morning in her bathtub. I can feel empathy for the fish creature. I would want to save him myself. But I would not find him desirable as a romantic interest. He didn't really communicate to any more depth or level that a signing Ape. Would I want to have sex with an Ape? Uh... just NO! This may be a delicate subject but it's the ENTIRE PREMISE OF THE MOVIE. So, anyone should know that sex and water do not mix -- no matter what shape it is! Hah! I could go on and on any on... but it is a cardinal rule. Just look it up on line. I won't go into the details but it's just not something that I, as a woman, would enjoy in the water. The whole romance thing pretty much creeped me out!Now that being said; I guess if she were a hybrid or some such... the whole thing would be a bit more plausible. But she looked completely human. She had marks on her neck, which some are saying are gills. Well, okay then.I guess my final remark is that I wish Men would do a bit more research into what Woman really want in bed...OR water.... ugh."
"I LIKED
Acting, directing, photography, set designI DISLIKED
(Almost everything in) the script.
First. Why did they want just to vivisect the creature? Why?
Second. What did Soviet spy want? Why they wanted to kill the creature?
Why did they shoot Dimitri?
Third. If the creature could heal himself, why was he dying at Lisa's home?Furthermore I almost hate musicals (expecially Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers) so I was about to leave the theater when they quoted the 30s musicals in the dance of Lisa and the creature sequence.Leave alone the silly idea to fill the bathroom with 2,50 meters of water just using a towel to plug the door slit. Water is heavy, almost 5-8 tons, and it would have broken the floor.Another thing was annoying: a 70-years-old man should not try and flirt with people 50 years youger than him, no matter if male or female.The oscar that the movie does not deserve IMO are:
Best Motion Picture
Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role
Best Achievement in Music
Best Original Screenplay
Best Achievement in Costume Design"
"It's a Beauty and the Beast MerMAN movie that was drowned with explicit sexual content and contained promising, though disjointedly-conveyed, race/power/isolation messages. The movie could have cut 15 properly-selected minutes without sacrificing effect."
"I loved \"Pan's Labyrinth,\" so expected to love this movie, too, especially as it boasts the talents of Michael Shannon and Richard Jenkins. But... I hated it. (I was really disappointed, because a week ago I saw the equally ballyhooed \"Call Me By Your Name,\" which I also expected to love, but also hated.) Shannon gets the gold star for his performance, which was not hurt by having the best lines in the movie, and Jenkins shines in a multilayered role. But Sally Hawkins struck me as a mite too twee (and her ASL was sloppy) and Octovia Spencer was squandered in a role a nobody could have played. Del Toro's penchant for mixing nauseating gore into his films does not work here; this amphibious love story was ruined by all the violence and gore, which was used to much better effect in \"Pans Labyrinth,\" a film that was, after all, set amid the violence of Francoist Spain. The gore/violence factor made sitting through \"Shape\" for over two hours (too long for most movies) a chore, despite the lovely use of color and retro settings that made me recall my childhood. There was just too much ick factor in this film for me to give it a higher rating."
"I have to admit, I'm a little disappointed. Del Toro's fingerprints are all over this film and that means there's a lot to love -- everything from the wonderfully strange premise to the gorgeous production design and overall visuals are unmistakably him. Sally Hawkins gives a stellar central performance, as does the rest of the cast; the score and featured music are lovely, adding tons to the general tone and feel. But the story. It has its heart in the right place, but as much as I love the creative idea, there's no getting around it: it doesn't work as well as I'd hoped. Yes, it's predictable, but what really hampers the affect is that I just don't buy the love between girl and fish-man. That's a problem because it's the centrepiece, the main attraction. There seems to be some essential elements missing to make it believable. So whilst it's touching, in a sense, and an enjoyable visual feast with a hint of magic, 'The Shape of Water' just doesn't soar to the heights it could have"
"While it's beautifully shot, there is no replacing Wilford Brimley."
"The Shape of Water excels in several different departments. Its really well helmed in terms of directing and shot composition. The lighting and set designs were exquisite. The main performance by Sally Hawkins and main supporting performance by Richard Jenkins were amazing (Michael Shannon also delivers a delicious but fairly one note role as well) However the movie just feels forgettable, nothing about the story or the way its told is that great. Its hard to put in words exactly why but just from a subjective point of view the story was lacking a bit. I didn't really care that much about the characters. The romance felt forced and rushed to me. The main character basically falls in love with the amphibian just after a couple of meetings with him. The character does explain to here dad at one point why she is in love with him (in an attempt to get him to help her free it) but based on the scenes we have actually seen with the two of them it didn't feel justified. There are some plot holes that are forgivable but a little distracting, and also some out of character moments. But those are just nit picks. A bigger problem would be the anti climatic ending but I won't get into spoilers but lets just say it was unsatisfying. Overall this is a decent film for sure, one that is overall entertaining and is never boring, but don't expect it to knock your socks off or anything (unlike the directors last fantasy film Pans Labyrinth which I truly regard as one of the greatest films ever made)."
"I've enjoyed much of this director's previous work and like those, I found this film to be visually sumptuous and endlessly interesting to look at. Unfortunately though, the story was very predictable, the characters cookie-cutter and ultimately did not match up to the visual delights on offer. Unless you're a serious fan of the director I would not consider this essential viewing."
"It is the mid-1960s. Elisa is mute, and a cleaner at a US government experiment facility. Her life is quite mundane and unfulfilled. Then the facility starts on a new project: the US government has captured a man-fish hybrid in South America and now they are seeing if the creature's unique physiology could have some uses for humans, especially for astronauts. Elisa becomes attached to the creature.The winner of Best Picture at the 2018 Oscars, though difficult to see why. A pretty basic movie - a linear romantic drama with one-dimensional characters, cartoonish, badness-laid-on-so-thick-it's-laughable villains, conventional plot development and a fairly predictable ending. It's not that profound or original in its themes or development (unless the viewer has only seen a handful of movies in their life) - quite dumbed-down (though that might be more a reflection of modern audiences than anything else). If it wasn't for the excellent CGI, the sentimentality, the slickness of the plot development and some of the performances it would be just another B-grade creature feature.Part of the problem is that director Guillermo del Toro tries to steer a path between fairy tale and gritty drama, and thus ends up with something that is tonally jarring and inconsistent. The movie from the start has a light, airy feel, the ideal set up for a sweet, all-ages drama. There's even some funny moments to help this along. Yet, interspersed with the lightness are several adult-orientated scenes. Even as the movie becomes darker, bloodier and grittier, del Toro still tries to cling to the fairy tale side.Made as a plain fairy tale-like drama, suitable for all ages, this would have worked a whole lot better.Not that it's that bad though. The movie moves at a decent pace and is quite entertaining. There is a decent level of intrigue and tension and Sally Hawkins puts in a great performance as Elisa."
"For those of you who are Guillermo Del Toro fans please go and see this film as I am sure you will enjoy it. It carries all the trademark style of a Pans Labyrinth with weird creatures, maze-like caverns and a strong female character fighting against an evil male representing the military. You will be caught up in the romance of good overcoming evil and unlikely concepts of love.However, if you are looking for a movie to be entertained then let me share with you why this is not for you. Warning there will be spoilers.The story is set in the 1960's revolves around Elisa, a mute female janitor played by Sally Hawkins, who works at a water research facility. She is shown as a lonely woman with an older male neighbour, Giles, with whom she shares an affection for older movies, TV shows and music. At work, she cleans the facility with her friend Zelda, Octavia Spencer, who does enough talking for the two of them and while Elisa is mute she does not appear to have any problems communicating with others. One day while they are cleaning one of the research rooms, which could have been transferred directly from Frankenstein's castle, a water tank is brought in that is housing a large human-like creature. At the same time, we meet the evil security man, Strickland, who we learn is the real monster of the movieEven though the monster rips two of Strickland's fingers off, Elisa feels a strong bond with the creature as they are both lonely and neither can speak. Even though the creature is military secret Elisa is able to sneak into the room where it is held and decides to share an egg with it. She then sneaks in an old style portable stereo with which she plays music to the creature with no one finding out. After teaching it sign language to say egg and music the emotional connection is complete and they are BFF's. Strickland decides that the creature is not of much value and decides to kill it and cut it up to see how it works. In true James Bond fashion, they set its termination for two days time instead of straight away.Elisa finds out and makes a plan to help the creature escape. She recruits her gay neighbour, who is also lonely, to her mission and they arrange to break the creature out of a high-security military facility by placing it in a laundry basket and driving it out. Along the way, she is aided by a Russian spy/Professor who believes the creature should be saved even if it means Moscow misses out. Fellow janitor, Zelda, also becomes involved and they are able to rescue the creature and take it back to her small apartment where she keeps it in the bathtub. While she cares for it they become more than just friends and have sex. It might be a slimy creature from the Black Lagoon but it also has an impressive set of abs. The fact that this takes place after she fills up her bathroom with water which then leaks to the movie theatre below without anyone becoming suspicious or wanting to inspect her apartment is not explained. We also find that the creature has amazing healing powers as he cures Giles baldness but only after he bites one of his cat's head off.In the meantime, the evil security officer tries to find out who stole the creature. Even though the security cameras were turned away so the rescuers could not be seen all he would have had to do was watch who was in the landing dock just before the cameras were adjusted and he would have seen Elisa. His woeful attempts to intimidate the janitors or find any clues makes you wonder how effective he has been in his job previously. Meanwhile, Elisa waits for the rainy season to come so she can release the creature into a canal which when it becomes deep enough will open up into the ocean thus releasing him 'Free Willy' style. It is never really explained why she can't just take him to the other side of the canal gate and drop him straight into the sea!!!As time goes on the creature becomes sick and is losing his scales, Elisa grows more fond of him and Strickland finally gets closer to solving the puzzle by going after the wrong suspect. After some graphic violence, Strickland finally works it out that Elisa has the creature and is going to release him. In the pouring rain, as Elisa, Giles and the creature are saying their final goodbyes, Strickland arrives and shoots both Elisa and the creature and in his evil way gloats on his success. Suddenly the creature is able to heal himself of the bullet wounds, even though he couldn't stop his scales from flaking, and gives Strickland his comeuppance but not before he recognises that good beats evil. Zelda brings the police who all stay away from the shooting scene while Zelda races to the group to watch as the creature take Elisa with him into the canal. Once they are submerged he kisses her which not only brings her back to life but also gives her gills so they can all live happily ever after.If the storyline sounds like nonsense - well it is, but it was directed by Guillermo Del Toro so it is stylish nonsense. The fact that it has been nominated for 13 Oscars says more about the competition than the quality of this movie I believe. At first, I really disliked it but having considered it further some of the actings wasn't too bad, the sets were good but as a fairy tale, it was no Little Mermaid.6 friends out of 10"
"I LOVE del Toro's movies and his visionaries but this is so unlike his usual style. The originality has been crushed by way too mamy placement of B&W movies and especially Jeunet's Amelie - did Elisa (Sally Hawkins) walk past a burning chocolate factory called \"Ammalie?\" I really don't understand the French angle when the story is set in Cold War era in America that is also experiencing unimaginable racism and sexism. Added to the melting pot, is Elisa's neighbour Giles (Richard Jenkins) who is gay but his brief subplot is unnecessary and is clearly underdeveloped. Jenkin's presence and talent are wasted here as he meanders nostalgically through the movie but only comes alive when he interacts and helps Elisa with her ordeal.The acting is overall superb. Hawkins is incredible as a long suffering lonely mute. Her whole body emotes her anguish, desperation and happiness down right to her sinewy fingers. Michael Shannon's villian is so foul and hateful, the very opposite to his conscientious and pitiable detective in Nocturnal Animals. He can take on any role and provoke viewers from beginning to the end. Octavia Davis is so loveable and bigger than life that she can't help but steal every scene she appears in. Doug Jones who is the hunted Amphibian Man looks very similar but is a more tortured Hell Boy's Abe Sapien whom he also played. I did wonder if SoW is Hell Boy's uncredited sequel.SoW is simply about love - that it knows no boundaries and speaks through any languages. And this is what del Toro should have stuck with, the very essence of Pan's Labrynth. But this movie takes on too many issues, diluting the important main theme. It is no doubt visually stunning in colours and cinematography however at times, the typical del Toro melancholic beauty is replaced by graphic sex scene or violent gore. It's unfair to keep comparing del Toro's earlier movies but their distinct visuals and out of the square box storylines are what made him different. I just hope he's not becoming the dull and predictable box office smash directors from the same Hollywood mould."
"Sex and violence really sell, don't they? A bit of porn, lots and lots of violence and you have a multi Academy Award nomination movie!I went to see yesterday The Shape of Water and I was highly disappointed. While the music, the cinematography and the performances are amazing, the love story is really not convincing and a bit creepy, and the unnecessary sex scenes (masturbation and coitus) and, specially, the monstruos violence killed all the poetry of the movie. In the same way that I don't think a director needs to show the actors shitting, pissing or picking their noses I find graphic sex a very poor choice for a director to illustrate a point. But, more than that, I find violence onscreen really disturbing and I think that such a high degree of violence is a very poor tool for a director. An exception to that would probably be Tarantino, who uses violence in such a crude way that it ends out being funny (nevertheless, Tarantino's violence is sometimes too much for me, even when he uses it for something great, like killing Nazis). I think that there are greater cinematic ways of showing violence than graphic torture, flying fingers, and litres of blood. If you don't agree with me, go and see Doctor Zhivago: you will be amazed by the power of the scene where the Imperial Army is massacring the people next to the Winter Palace and all you can see is the horrifying face of Doctor Zhivago, who, from a safe window, watches men, women, and children being slaughtered by the Imperial Army. Now, that's art. The rest is only good special effects and a big lack of imagination. The same goes for sex. There are many ways of showing the act of love with sensuality, strength, and poetry, but Guillermo del Toro chose here graphic sex. Why? I guess it sells better.Frankly, I don't get the hype around this film. 13 Academy Award nominations? Come on! Guillermo del Toro looks like a really nice guy, and I actually hate to write negative reviews. If I spend a bit of time in writing this negative review it's because, as with La La Land (an annoying and cheesy torture filled with cliches), I'm amazed at how bad or not so good Hollywood movies can get such a hype, while other movies, like Woody Allen's masterpieces, get shut out and don't get any important nominations (yes, I am a huge fan of Woody: I love his art, his philosophy and his genius, and I'm very angry at this wave of hypocrisy, opportunism and lies around him that mixes false accusations from two crazy and resentful women with the most beautiful art).The characters of The Shape of Water are all either black or white, there are no greys here: the bad ones are really bad and the good ones are really good. Well, life isn't neither black nor white. It's full of greys. While the performances are all amazing: Sally Hawkins is great, Octavia Spencer is amazing as always, Richard Jenkins is really good too and Michael Shannon is stunning (he really steals the movie and, surprisingly, didn't get any Golden Globe or Academy Award nomination), the souls of the characters are painted only in one color, and that's very Hollywood-ish and commercial. Also, I wonder, for which age is The Shape of Water? You would first think that a fantasy movie is suitable for children, but this one is not. Or, you would think that a love story with so much violence and a bit of porn is suitable for adults, but then, why put this stupid fish-creature? I'm used to seeing lots of fantasy and children movies with my kids (ages 11, 9 and 4, so, imagine: I've seen them all: since The Dark Cristal from 1982 until the last superhero movie). But this movie, for who is it?I understand why this movie can arrive to people, especially people who feel very lonely. I feel a great deal of empathy for all the people who feel alone in the world and seek love and company wherever they can, but I think that the black and white characters and the huge degree of violence kill the depth of this movie. Maybe the majority of the people of today are so used to see violence (on TV and on the internet) that they don't even notice it any more. I am very sensible to violence and it disturbs me a lot when I see it (here at home we don't have a TV for many many years, so I really don't know what's going on with TV violence these days -we only choose what we want to watch and watch it with our cinema projector). I understand that there are movies where violence is necessary (for instance, if you watch a movie about the Holocaust it may contain some graphic violence) but what really bothers me, artistically speaking, is superfluos violence: violence for selling, for entertaining a bit more and keep the audience amused. That kind of violence is repulsive.I don't like to put a qualification for a movie. I always found it pretentious of us, the audience and the reviewers, to qualify the huge work of a director with a number (I'm aware of the fact that to create art is difficult and to criticize is easy). But this time, since there is such a hype around this film, I feel obliged to qualify this movie. So, 1 point for the music (Alexandre Desplat), 1 point for the cinematography (Dan Laustsen), 1 point for Michael Shannon, 1 point for Sally Hawkins, 1 point for the amazing Octavia Spencer, and 1 point for Richard Jenkins. 6/10If you want to listen to good music, be amazed by a beautiful cinematography, see Sally Hawkins's sexual part, enjoy your popcorn while a fish-creature is being tortured in a brutal way, blood is running, and a cats loses her heads, go and see The Shape of Water."
"In this unusual mesh of fantasy, romance and science fiction, a mute woman working as a lab custodian in the late 60s falls for an abused, captive sea monster. The film dons many hats, several at the same time, which distract and compete for attention: that central relationship, the military's plans for the creature, a neighbor's quest to reclaim his job with an ad agency, a coworker's marriage, a supervisor's frustrated home life. Each adds a layer to the onion skin, and color to the world, but ultimately they feel like light diversions from the main course. On a technical level, it's exceptional. Guillermo del Toro's work has never been short on conceptual know-how, and The Shape of Water merely continues his habit of one-upping the preceding film. The beast itself, heavily influenced by The Creature from the Black Lagoon with a hint or two of Abe Sapien from del Toro's Hellboy, looks fantastic. Lifelike and expressive, it's easy to buy into as a thinking, feeling participant in the story. Sally Hawkins is wonderful as the human lead, drawing inspiration from dozens of classic silent films in her flourishing role as a mousey, passionate, eloquent young woman. Set designs, too, are distinct and remarkable, from the slimy, clinical confines of the military science lab to her crusty, crumbling apartment just above an active movie theater. The plot drags, though, and more than once edges awfully close to cliche. I enjoyed it, particularly on a thematic level, but I wish it was about twenty minutes shorter."
"Actually I was expecting a lot better..but the movie really couldn't satisfy me and in my opinion it was even full of some big and little defects.the whole idea was really great but unfortunately the movie made of that was not and it could be lot better. But I loved the music and design of the scenes and cinematography:)"
"I like a good story and here we have a good story being told. It helps if you are a fan of the Creature From the Black Lagoon and the sequels. Hey, the guy only wanted some company and was willing to do what it takes to get some. In this movie, we are introduced to a sort of fairy tale telling of the world of what if and what could be which exceeds our thoughts but feeds the imaginations. There were a couple of sex scenes that I thought were not necessary at all and one wonders why they are in this? With them gone, this could have taken its place with Beauty and the Beast and brought the lessons to children more. It also ran a little long but for those that like a good build-up they wont' be disappointed. When watching this movie, if one believes there are no accidents, that the heart can prevail by its own rules and not giving up allows it to do so then a treat awaits. The bad guy in this movie was a little over the top and the premise of what to do with the \"creature\" doesn't pass common sense but it doesn't have to either. The movie still prevails. The shape of this water...."
"While I'm not into 'creature from the deep' type movies, this is not really one of those. It is more of a love story like I've never seen before...There really wasn't any room for 'spectacular' acting, though the whole cast did their job delivering the character they were assigned.The wardrobe and props departments also did a great job giving the film a 1950s type of look and feel. The same should also be said of the film crew.But, back to the story...There were a couple of times I expected a completely different reaction from characters (no spoilers). However the reactions were delivered smoothly, so smoothly, in fact, that they didn't bother me, or make me 'dwell' for longer than a moment.Like I said near the beginning, it is a love story, of sorts, with a sci-fi / creature from the deep sort of twist to it, and, once again, no spoilers, there is a betrayal that goes on, but a betrayal that has no pain...There is no reason this film should get less than a 7 out of ten.A film truly worth watching, no matter what you prefer. It has a story that it delivers, and a story that is easily enjoyed.And, probably best watched by mature audiences :)"
"Everything was on point. I really loved how the story panned out. The creature was well designed, unlike most monster movies they actually hinted us answers about the creature. Except there were lame decision making cliché sprinkled all over. Other than that, i couldn't complain more. Story could've been much more vast. The 60s backdrop was amazing too. People shouldn't miss this movie. Beast and beauty movies always have a flamboyant effect on me."
"Only Guillermo Del Toro could pitch, \"It's a monster romance picture that feels like Free Willy meets Amelie in the Cold War era.\" But you know what? It works...mostly. (You know, other than the central romantic relationship.) Regardless, it is absolutely beautiful and enchanting. There were points where I felt like this story tried a wee bit too hard, but it never strayed far from what it was. It was an un-apologetically monster fairy tale. If you want it to be something else, you will be disappointed. If you let it be what it is, you will enjoy every minute."
"While his last film Crimson Peak did not do it for me, I was naturally excited to see a new Guillermo Del Toro film. Admittedly, The Shape of Water is no Pan's Labyrinth in terms of depth, but the director once again proves himself to be an incredibly passionate and creative voice in cinema. It looks silly on paper, but this story about a mute woman, portrayed beautifully and fearlessly by Sally Hawkins, who forms a romantic bond with a Creature from the Black Lagoon-esque water monster in the facility where she serves as a cleaning help, turns out to be completely unique and heartfelt. The cast is stellar; Micheal Shannon never disappoints as a love-to-hate kind of villain, and Micheal Stuhlbarg is fun and sympathetic as one of the lead scientists. The standout is undoubtedly the always wonderful Richard Jenkins as our lead character's neighbour. Not everything works though, I could have spent a little more time developing the bond between woman and creature. The film quickly brushes over it in favour of a Cold War storyline, that works well in its own right, but makes that central romance and some the more daring scenes in the latter half of the movie not entirely believable. Del Toro's signature dish of fairytale storytelling mixed with a dark undertone and sudden bursts of bloody violence does once again feel fresh and unpredictable, but does make for a tonally inconsistent experience. All of these issues pointed out, however, I can still very much recommend The Shape of Water to almost anyone. The production design and cinematography are gorgeous, the actors are all on top of their game, and while it tends to venture a bit too much to the cheesy side, I could not help but feel immersed in the world and invested all of the characters involved."
"Briefly, a beautiful piece of work. Gorgeous sets, costumes colors, monsters and music. The relationships are interesting and the chemistry is wonderful however, the story is so predictable. Regardless of that it is a sight to behold and worth a watch."
"We all crave for love and care. The exchange of those emotions with our world around keeps us going. The humanity finds new outlets when the existing ones don't give way to release and expression. In right circumstances, love finds new faces and, in some other, it subtly devolves into a disease. Guillermo del Toro preens those faces up beautifully in his novel imagination, The Shape of Water.The movie is set up in the cold world era, with visible contempt for certain skin colour and race à la hierarchical structure and caste divide in India of the same period. Evidently, getting ahead at all cost was starting to get common at that time in the US-even at the cost of values and human relationship. In such an environment what chance does a mute janitor has other than to be grateful for the small mercies of the world? She sure has a company with an old man, Giles, her neighbour, whose services are no more needed by his employer. His paintings don't find a place in a rapidly moving world that values usefulness over subtlety. Guillermo aptly portrays two people living with compatible loneliness. Even more apt for 2010s than 1970s!Despite of all this darkness, love and care floats like a cuckoo's constant humming in the story. Elisa's care for her cats, movie theatre owner's compassionate behaviour towards his protagonist tenants, Zelda holding the line for Elisa and finally Elisa's care for humanoid amphibious creature are like many threads that weave a beautiful colour across a piece of muslin. The story isn't a first of its kind. There are many movies depicting an animal falling in love with a human (King Kong, Shrek, etc.). Considering many may not prefer to watch such a love story, treading that path and keeping the audience hooked and to make them appreciate the evolution of emotions is not easy, but Guillermo does it with conviction.Most of the characters round up well as the story progresses. Being a female, an orphan and a janitor with not many around having the time and patience to 'listen' to her gestures, she tends to herself. Her sexuality woven into her daily routine is shown in a bland yet beautiful way and highlight her lonely world. Guillermo must be appreciated for picturising that non-judgementally. Her coming to find an expression in the creature appears natural. Now, juxtapose Giles' refusing to understand Elisa's anxiously exaggerated gestures against the creature using the same gestures to express its love for her. That's the movie's high point.Zelda with her skin colour and Giles with his sexual orientation similarly crave for a caring company. As an oddity, Colonel Richard Strickland's character does not evolve as the story advances. His motive to win at all cost is not well explained except that a threat to his survival finally made him even darker.The way the scientist Robert Hoffstetle (a soviet spy in disguise who is constantly threatened by the ruthlessness of both Colonel Richard Strickland and Hoffstetle's soviet handlers) helps to save the amphibian shows how an attempt to understand can bring compassion and love. In contrast, Colonel Strickland's desire to win at all cost harbours ruthless pragmatism at the cost of those emotions.The movie's climax is a bit routine and thus disappointing. It develops suddenly ending in a bland win of good over evil.Even if one doesn't relate to a lady falling for an animal, the true appreciation of the subtlety of human emotions and values is what makes the movie watchable. A commendable piece of art.~ Himanshu Trivedi"
"You can't help but feel that The Shape of Water uses a lot of other films for influences. Although it's understandable that some may find it a little too sweet I really enjoyed the movie.This is Guillermo del Toro at his Pan's Labyrinth best. The film is scattered with several breathtaking scenes. At the start of these scenes you breath in and know that you are about to be wowed for the next few minutes. I've always been a big fan of Michael Shannon and never have his talents been better showcased than the role of Richard Strickland. Sally Hawkins is also excellent in the lead role of Elisa who is a isolated mute cleaner working at a secret government agency. Not for the action junkies, but everyone else should give it a viewing."
"There are all sorts of different movies going on in cinemas: documentaries, true stories, thrillers, detectives, dramas, fairytales, animation, etc.. What genre would you characterize The Shape of Water to be? I would say it's a work of art. Most of the things we watch lately are \"based on a true story\" and as helpful and educational as it is, it defeats the purpose of art. Art is about expanding your imagination, going above your limits. Exploring ideas that are unreal but yet create real emotions and reactions. I have seen decent amount of movies and one thing that will make me always appreciate the work is the artistic side of it. How innovative was the technique director used? How were the scenes shot? What angle did the camera men take? The story itself plays certain role - it's the main idea that the whole movie is circled around, but HOW you tell a story is equally if not more important for a storyteller. Think about it in a conventional way - we all have friends who can tell the most boring story with enthusiasm and make people laugh, while others can bore you even while talking about intriguing concepts. Same happens with cinematography - talent to tell a story is what cinematography is about, if we look at it at it's very origin. For that, I have to say that Guillermo del Toro remembers what is ART, it's purpose and tricks of great storytelling. I don't want to go into a deep analyse of the movie as it was not made to be thought through million times. It was made to be watched and enjoyed as you watch it. If I were to judge HOW it's made I'd give it a firm 10. The story itself is where I lost 3 points. The story is not original, \"Beauty and the Beast\" variation with more hardcore characters and grimy dark turns along the way that give this green movie a beautiful red contrast (the movie is shot in green-ish tones with a lot of blood in scenes)It definitely triggers some questions about our tolerance to each other. Where do we really draw the line between human and inhuman. How and WHY do we get to decide what lives and what dies? So if you really want some food for your brain, you can find it as well. But I wouldn't recommend taking this movie too deep. Guillermo did an incredible job on creating this beautiful world, that you can watch 2 or 3 times and still don't catch all the details of, so, for the art's sake, dive in with open eyes and ears, take in the whole experience and breath out when you leave the theater. It's quite a magical journey."
"When The Shape of Water started rolling the opening credits, I thought to myself, what could I have gotten myself into? Something about this particular project seemed beautiful, but completely off-putting, even in 2017. There is no secret as to what this film is. A semi-erotic romance picture about a woman and an amphibian humanoid. You might say it's Guillermo del Toro's Beauty and the Beast, as put through the lens of a 1950's Universal Monster Movie, or perhaps there's something more? I take it that del Toro, despite being a well-versed horror movie historian, wasn't just taking a trip down memory lane. I still can't put my finger on what, but The Shape of Water is a provoking piece of art. With all the gorgeous sets, special effects and ensemble cast, I saw the film with an audience of people that weren't necessarily pleased with what they saw. The Shape of Water is no crowd pleaser and I believe del Toro wanted it that way.The film takes place in the early 1960's. Hawkins is a mysterious figure. Elisa Esposito. A mute woman who works as a janitor at a government lab. Surrounding her is a world of stereotypes. Her partner at home is Giles, a starving artist and closeted homosexual with a tendency to hoard Key Lime pie, played impeccably by the great Richard Jenkins. Octavia Spencer plays Zelda Fuller, Elisa's loyal friend from work. Then we are introduced to Colonel Richard Strickland, the film's clear antagonist. He is our Gaston. The straight, broad shouldered, bigoted white man who discovered the poor amphibian creature, and rather than being fascinated by it, he simply wants to crush it for being different. While he's a villain that's easy to hate, there isn't much nuance to his character in comparison to Jenkins and Spencer. He's a brutish thug and that's about it. Although, I got a kick out of his candy addiction and his willingness to dislocate his blackened, gangrene-infected fingers out of anger. del Toro is a brilliant absurdist.Any time Hawkins and the creature shared screen time, either together or by themselves, I fell in love. Hawkins is a revelation. She says not a word, but projects an emotional performance louder than any acting job you saw at the movies in 2017. I couldn't keep my eyes off of her. She mesmerized me and filled my heart with joy. The creature is an odd updated version of The Creature from the Black Lagoon with fantastical healing powers and a rather nauseating way of copulating. Her romance with the creature comes from a place of loneliness. Two souls, misunderstood and rejected by the world. They were meant for each other. A love so powerful that Hawkins even strikes up the courage to sing \"You'll Never Know\" to it in an unexpected musical number. On the surface, you might say the lesson of the story is \"love isn't skin deep\". True as that may be, you will never get over how odd it is to see Hawkins fall for that terrifying frog monster. But that's the point. Guillermo del Toro doesn't want you to feel aroused. He doesn't even want you to shed a tear for the protagonists. The Shape of Water is entirely a visual experience and a trip through the imagination of a world unlike ours, but placed somewhere in the not so distant past. It isn't reality or fantasy, it's that unrecognizable grey area in between. It's only up to you to figure out what it all really means."
"It's romantic, it's blue-gray-green, it's wet, it's passionate. It's really hard to classify. This film defies any form of convenient categorization, as is typical with the adult fantasy fables crafted by Guillermo del Toro, he of the visually poetic mind. This is lush romance, adult fairy tale, violent cold war thriller, supernatural fable, dark comedy, social justice parable, and horror film, all in one lush, wet, subterranean visual dance.Del Toro has mixed those ingredients before (with the exception of the dance number dream sequence), most beautifully in his master work from 2006, \"Pan's Labyrinth.\" And he brought captivating, otherworldly mysticism to sequences of the two Hellboy films he directed. His films glue the eyes to the screen. You cannot look away.Here, not all of this exotic mix works, but the parts that do work, Really work, and are decorated by lush production design by Paul Austerberry, many shades of blue-gray-green. A joke is made about it when a \"teal\" car gets purchased in the plot. The love affair is the most effective thread, in an extremely powerful way, as a mesmerizingly emotive Sally Hawkins plays Elisa Esposito, a cleaning woman who is mute. She befriends the \"Asset,\" played with great physical grace by Doug Jones, an amphibian man who is the subject of a cruel government experimentation program under way in a murky underground lab in Baltimore. Think Creature of the Black Lagoon treated as a Cold War asset. The Amphib-man is intelligent, peaceful at heart, and is graced with amazing healing powers, he was worshiped as an aquagod by the locals in the Amazon basin, before he was captured and brought in a tank to the States.Elisa yearns for a soulful connection, and as she joins the overnight cleaning crews at the lab, she draws the Amphib-man out, tempting him with hard-boiled eggs and Benny Goodman records. She teaches him Sign. He teaches her about his pure heart. The year is 1962, and the lab's secret government staff seek a leg up on the Soviets. It's thought the Amphib-man's unique twinned breathing systems could yield an advantage in the space race.That thread is mostly window dressing, it doesn't work so well as did the fight between partisans and fascists in the Spanish Civil War context that was so deftly applied to \"Pan's Labyrinth,\" but it serves to lay out a twisted homicidal antagonist, a true believer, Col. Strickland, played by Michael Shannon with sadistic perversion. It's amazing to contrast these heavy roles he gets now with his part as Fred, the Wrestle Mania fan from \"Groundhog Day.\" As Strickland blithely tortures the Amphib-man and domineers his yellow-housed family, Elisa flies under his radar and enlists her coworker Zelda (Octavia Spencer) and best friend from her apartment building, Giles (Richard Jenkins), to spring the Amphib-man from his laboratory prison, with an assist by a sympathetic scientist, Dr. Hoffstetler, played with a proud ethical posture by Michael Stuhlbarg, amidst a subplot of Soviet spying (which also doesn't work so well; I would have preferred more of the budding human-Merman romance thread).Spencer's Zelda is the film's incisive comic relief, and she can read Elisa's moods in detail, setting up a mirthful exchange when Zelda discovers that Elisa has ... consummated her bond with the Amphib-man. The line, and the explanatory miming, is flatly hilarious, I won't spoil it. Zelda is Elisa's workplace touchstone, her defender and translator, her unquestioning friend. Spencer hits a home run with the role, another one for her after \"Hidden Figures.\"Jenkins is also fantastic, as professional illustrator Giles, fired from his ad agency because he's gay, and bereft of the special contact of love, which is also Elisa's condition. She struggles to express to Giles why she loves the Amphib-man: \"When he looks at me, he does not see how I am incomplete.\" (Her muteness.) \"He just sees Me.\" Giles, too, is beguiled by the pure heart of the persecuted merman, despite an unfortunate incident with one of Giles' pet cats. The tragedy of the story is the emotional weight of being alone, a condition shared by Elisa, Giles, and the Amphib-man. None of them are complete, all of them yearn for contact.About Doug Jones, he of the virtuosity in acting while clad in layers of prosthetic latex: he was the magical Faun, as well as the monstrous Pale Man in \"Pan's Labyrinth,\" he was another merman, Abe Sapien, in the Hellboy films by del Toro, and now he's Lt. Saru in Star Trek Discovery. All roles in which his height and athletic posture help him act sensitively while covered in layers of prosthetics. In this film, he's like Elisa: mute from the human perspective, but his vocalizations are appropriately intense (which were credited to del Toro).Del Toro simply does not make Hollywood formula films. Every item he directs winds up being a singular entry of entrancing strangeness, some working better than others. But every one of them unique and special. I wonder what he might do with a conventional script, something not immersed in the mists of fantasy. But then again, he seems most happy plumbing those shrouded, tragic, romantic depths. More power to him."
"Guillermo Del Toro's leaving the Pacific Rim pays off.
Science fiction is not always about action. Please do not hope for any of it. Enjoy the complexity of the situation."
"The Shape of Water is Guillermo Del Toro's latest blend of fantasy mysticism and gritty realism. Set around 1960, Sally Hawkins stars as a mute janitor at a research facility who falls in love with a creature that they pulled from the Amazon. This is beautifully played over a cold war backdrop with outstanding supporting performances, like Octavia Spencer as the sassy coworker, Michael Shannon as the sadistic boss, and Richard Jenkins as her struggling neighbor. It is firmly reminiscent of Del Toro's Pan's Labyrinth, without feeling too similar.There were several moments when it dipped into being unnecessarily crude for a few cheap laughs that felt out of place. They also took her relationship with the creature to a place that kind of undermined the beauty of it and weakened the film as a whole. Del Toro definitely played into the R rating by diverting a touching love story to places that didn't help develop it.The Shape of Water is Del Toro's best work since Pan's Labyrinth and features beautiful cinematography and very strong work by the entire cast. However, it never manages to break through into being a truly great film despite showing the potential."
"It is what it looks like. personally, i love the 60's look of the movie. May not be for everyone."
"As soon as I saw the trailer for this movie, I was absolutely hooked. Fantasy romance with Guillermo del Toro directing and writing? Sounded like the perfect combination. I'm fairly familiar with some of del Toro's other works (Pan's Labyrinth, The Strain, Don't Be Afraid of the Dark, Crimson Peak, etc) many of which I loved, and this movie can be ranked up there with the best of his films. It was visually stunning from beginning to end, with a beautiful dark fantasy like feel throughout each scene. The whole film gives a sense of being underwater with reflective surfaces and gloomy aesthetics, making it absolute gorgeous to watch. The characters are wonderfully developed. The relationship between Elisa and the Asset is not one we as an audience are unfamiliar with, but presented in a rather unique manner with the presence of various obstacles to their love. The childish innocence of the Asset and Elisa's wit and caring attitude come together in an adorable romance that warms the heart. The side characters offer their own unique quirks to the story and help to lighten some of the action in the film.This film was so different from many of the others from this year and a welcome change. Highly recommend to those who love romance or tend to be jaded by the genre. There is something in this film for all."
"The Shape of Water is definitely unlike any film I've seen this year. It is unique yet set in an older time which adds to its mystery and intrigue. A lonely mute cleaner forms an unusual bond with a different creature with unique abilities. Throughout the film we see the two grow closer and face obstacles from a ruthless agent. The film excels in being unique and pushing the boundaries of what is possible. There are also some unnecessary scenes showing her normal morning routine. Her neighbours character could have been developed as could Octavia Spencer's character. Still an enjoyable experience at the movies. 7/10"
"The movie is a surrealistic, romantic and sometime satirical film which takes the old grade Z \"creature from the black lagoon\" flicks of the 50s and brings them into modern concerns (albeit in a 1962 setting) and adult themes. A Cold War setting, a picture of early 60s racism and the struggles of loneliness are sub-themes that actually blend well."
"Baltimore, 1962: In the midst of the Cold War, Elisa Esposito (Sally Hawkins) is a young mute woman who works as a janitor in a government laboratory. At her workplace, she becomes intrigued and fascinated by a recently captured man-like sea creature that is confined in a water tank.This film is courageous in its combining a historical era with fantasy science-fiction. It is occasionally far-fetched (during that paranoid time/place, it's hard to believe Elisa would have such easy, unsupervised access to the lab with the sea-creature) but it is mostly believable within its bizarre, unusual universe.While it may not live fully up to the awards-hype it is getting, it is still praiseworthy in many ways. Director Guillermo del Toro works with a great team to draw the viewer into his fascinating world especially in two thrilling scenes - one of which is the finale. The cinematography (by Dan Laustsen), the music (by Alexandre Desplat), and the set design team work superbly to recreate a long-ago era through a unique lens. And the cast is equally amazing.Though Hawkins' performance has many similarities to her recent work in \"Maudie\", she succeeds greatly in the current film to show passion and determination despite her limits in being able to communicate verbally. The other characters and their respective performers are more than noteworthy: Richard Jenkins as Elisa's neighbour - an underemployed homosexual who has trouble with aging and finding work as an illustrator (his personal story could have been even more elaborated); Michael Shannon as a high-ranking official in Elisa's workplace - he's even more monstrous than the sea creature he regards with indifferent contempt; Michael Stuhlbarg as a scientist whose own story provides plot twists; and Octavia Spencer as Elisa's sharp-talking co-worker and loyal friend.One thing is for certain: \"The Shape of Water\" is in a category of its own."
"There's no much to say about \"The Shape of Water\": it's a film with a clear vision and it accomplishes that vision to the very last detail. It is impossible to doubt the charm of this film - whether or not a viewer will surrender to this charm is purely a mater of taste.You are more likely to be spell-bound by this film if you also liked:*The aesthetics of \"Amelie\"
*The weirdness of \"Pan's Labyrinth\"
*The emotions of films about lonely people and unlikely friendships (say \"Harold and Maude\")
*The tension and adventure scenes in \"E.T. the Extraterrestrial\"
*The fairytale archetypes found in The Beauty and the Beast and The Little Mermaid"
"Lovingly informed throughout by the '30s, the '50s, cinema (and '50s cinema), J.P. Jeunet, Cocteau and Spielberg, \"The Shape of Water\" is an out of the ordinary (but not altogether exceptional) tale of romance and poetic love, told (in the best places, whispered) in the manner of the uninhibited poetic fantasy of bygone eras Del Toro seems to incurably cling to.
I love him for that."
"7 +It's not Del Toro's best movie, but it's definitely still worth watching for many reasons : from a technical standpoint there's basically nothing to criticize, it really manages to drag the viewer into a sort of parallel reality, a world that is both familiar and fantastic, and the monster's look doesn't break the illusion cause it's so well done it won't look fake. Although the whole story doesn't add anything new to the genre, and it's a little too plain to be honest, all the characters manage to keep you interested in their development and overall look.
The message the movie delivers is heavy, but not heavily handled by the movie itself."
"It's a good movie. No doubt. The penalty for my taste is that he has done it with a beautiful and familiar whole. It would have been, for my taste better if I had not had that and it would have been drama. The problem is that some scenes would fall as it is made. It is a film in which you have to enter and admit, several aspects of departure, if not, the movie you will not like. If you do not admit it's a family movie, several times you will not believe it. You have to enter your game.I think it's not his best movie but he has come back in a big way.The actors are great. All of them. Sally, who arrived recently, each paper she makes is better than the previous one. Surely this woman has wonders for us in the future.It has a great picture. I liked it a lot. It is almost always pretty, beautiful and supports the story. It helps you a lot to get into the story.The address is again very good. After the faun he fell a lot, but in this he is again the one. Get to the end. You never get bored Get great interpretations. And he knows how to use the camera to tell you the story. It makes beautiful planes, well composed and that tell the movie.I think it's going to take a lot of Oscar this year, and he will deserve it."
"I decided to watch it after the Oscar nominations are revealed and this film leads with the number of nominations - 14 I think, if I remember correctly.So, you would expect a lot from the film with that many nominations and ... the film is not bad, but it is not mind blowing either. It has an interesting story and it has a very interesting end. Though her marks on the neck gave away - for me - right away what is going to happen.I like the artsy side of it. The creature is ...well...somewhere in between. I like the atmosphere of the apartment of the cleaner girl. The other cleaner lady was great too. in her role, but mute girl was really into the role.Music was interesting and I liked the whole 50's vibe.I have seen better films nominated for Oscars this year and I have to say this is not among my favorites. But it is good.Seven from me."
"Guillermo del Toro's 2017 romantic fantasy stars Sally Hawkins, Richard Jenkins, Octavia Spencer and Michael Shannon. This tells of mute, Elisa
(Hawkins) who works as a cleaning lady along with her interpreter friend, Zelda (Spencer). Soon, Elisa befriends and finds romance with an amphibian 
creature (Doug Jones) that's an experimental subject for the military. Jenkins (The Witches of Eastwick) plays Sally's roommate, Giles and Shannon (Man of Steel) plays Strickland, a corrupt, military colonel. 
This is a different kind of love story I liked featuring a good cast,
score & make-up effects. I recommend this."
"It was pretty strange to watch, since the movie was a little bit different than the most recent movies, well at least in my opinion. It isn't bad that it is strange to watch it, it is strange in a good way and it's amazing in the same moment, how you are able to express your feelings without saying a single word and how fast you can get attached to others. All in all, a superb movie by Guillermo del Toro."
"Saw this in a theatre. Got enticed due to its huge Oscar nominations otherwise not a fan of Del torro's films n his last movie Crimson peak was a complete letdown for me. Surprisingly got impressed with this film as Del torro transported viewers into the evenings n wee hours of the 60s. He dealt with issues ranging from the authoritarian militarism, brutality, racism, anti-immigration, homophobia and workplace sexual harassment very well. The star cast n performances r top notch."
"This film does well at doing many things at once and that is the ability to show love in its rarity and also to show the darkening depths of fear itself. Fear from conditioning over time...This film show's that you can move forward and be free from prior \"fears\" that make us all incapable at times, however the main characters all join together in this film to say that there is love and hope after all.
This Film is for adults who want to share the realism of this life and that includes fantasy and foul of the every day life/reality. But at the end of our foul days, what do we look for? We look for peace of mind and love that understand us as we understand love. This film shows the very in competence of all us on a daily basis but shows us that through the darkness we will always find the light. Truly beautiful film that tells a very unique story but not so far off from reality story..where we all want to fit in and feel loved."
"Guillermo Del Toro mentioned that one of the driving ideas behind this was for the monster to get the girl. I'm not going to give this away, but unlike some of the naysayers who've damned this film, they obviously didn't watch it with their eyes open. Who can make a film like this for under 20 million these days? Obviously Guillermo can. This is a dark and beautiful fantasy that one has to pay attention to. The story flows like the water it contains and I can't single out any one performance since all of them are so excellent. I would have liked it if the Amphibian man had a little more original look. He looked like Abe Sapien with the creature from the black lagoon's hands. But he is a beautiful creature, streamlined and wonderful. While some may poo-poo this film, It's Del Toro's best original film since Pan's Labyrinth and far superior to either Crimson Peak and the utterly terrible Pacific Rim."
"If I told you about her, what would I say? That they lived happily ever after? I believe they did. That they were in love? That they remained in love? I'm sure that's true. But when I think of her.. of Elisa.. the only thing that comes to mind is a poem whispered by someone in love hundreds of years ago. Unable to perceive the shape of you, I find you all around me, your presence fills my eyes with your love! It humbles my heart, for you are everywhere! 
This films was 2 hours of my life that will never ever be repeated. A stunning love story of a lonely woman who falls in love with a sea monster. A love so true, so humble, so rare, so uneasy and yet so beautiful! Two God's creatures find themselves falling in love, this is a story of a magical and real love under unreal circumstances. I'm so touched and so emotional that words are hard to describe, but they come flowing. 
This is an adult fairytale that will take you into a great adventure. This film is for dreams and anyone in love can relate to it. 
Winner of 2 Golden Globes for best directing and score by Alexander Desplat, this movie is definitelt worth watching! It will take your breath away!"
"The latest beautiful film by the dark fairy tale fantasy director Guillermo del Toro reminds me of hearing 40 year olds talk about what they got out of going to college . It seems that you get what you put into it. I'd claim the same goes for this collective homage film that will certainly open your eyes through many theatrical portals. I found an immediate thought of the French movie \"Amelie\" due to the quiet nature of our protagonist and the smart and artful use of color. It's a romantic viewing for those who appreciate such things and yearn for a better nature in ourselves. This 1960's period piece, set in Baltimore, Maryland, certainly doesn't look like any John Waters film I ever saw, but the small city with a chip on it's shoulder is carried well by the outsider and monster of the movie played by Michael Shannon. Yes, his characters' depth won't go past wading levels, but the fim isn't about character depth, and the story is the star. The movie has a collective voice of characters who, although silenced by the social indignities of that time, rose above themselves for the greater good. Octavia Spencer is understated but is our eyes as an outsider and our conscience as a friend. The only person who this doesn't hold true is Elisa, our protagonist, part mousey mute and part \"quite female\" to say the least. She's daring on a number of issues, but it feels as for personal gain, despite the pure heart angle. I will watch this again to see if I come away with that same sentiment. The \"asset\" is more reminicent of the Watchmans' Dr. Manhattan in it's perfect masculine form, allowing the romance to be \"somewhat\" believable, but it does appear one-sided for the majority of the film, so not sure how to handle the folks grabbing their pitchforks about their time with the film. If you love film beauty and are willing to spend time away from your everyday troubles, this flick works in it's own way. Predictable, sure, but vividly engaging!"
"The Shape of Water stands out for the way Guillermo del Toro is able to give this fantasy-laden film such a distinct time and place, in this case a military research facility set in the 1960's, which highlights del Toro's masterful screenwriting ability. The writing is further gilded by its intellectual depth, with characters remarking about the origin of certain words and names, or drawing on biblical references to better frame the predicaments they're in. And if del Toro only wrote the screenplay, he'd still be receiving acclaim, yet this entire production is his. All told, he's credited as the writer, director, and producer.The film exhibits an alluring, Amelie-like color profile, with water motifs throughout, featuring a career-making performance by Sally Hawkins. The selective use of nudity and sexuality adds a real sense of depth and fullness to her role, making the character seem that much more lifelike, and Hawkins certainly makes the most of it.Her performance is quite simply magnanimous. She's outwardly tender and sweet, with an inner strength and resolve that manifests itself whenever the occasion calls. It's a combination of perfect casting and the actress rising to the occasion that, in my estimation, places her as the odds on favorite to win the Golden Globe for Best Performance by an actress in a drama, for which she's currently nominated, and the Academy Award in the same category, for which she most certainly will be nominated."
"A mute janitor falls in love with a fish man during the Cold War 1950's. That's about as simple as you can describe the plot of Guillermo Del Toro's new film The Shape of Water. Del Toro has always had in interest in monsters for his films. No matter how scary or deformed they look, they always have human traits that connect us with them. In this film, Del Toro has crafted his most likeable monster yet and tells a totally original story (trust me) that is part romance, part thriller. We follow the life of a janitor without a voice, Elisa Esposito (Sally Hawkins). She works in an underground facility alongside her co-worker, Zelda (Octavia Spencer), who talks enough to make up for Elisa's silence. One day a secret test subject is brought into the facility by the psychotic Strickland (Michael Shannon). The subject happens to be an amphibious-human hybrid creature that was found in the Amazon and has been brought back to America in order to be dissected and studied. After interacting together a few times, Elisa and the creature begin to form a special bond of love. Elisa recruits her neighbor (Richard Jenkins) and a sympathetic Russian spy (Michael Stuhlbarg) for a plan to break the creature from his chains and allow him to return home. The plot carries both a whimsical and serious tone to it. They mostly go together well as we get a fairytale that isn't afraid to embrace a childish feel with adult actions. However, GDT goes overboard once with a song and dance number that comes close to throwing the whole film off during its most poignant time. This is one of GDT's most mainstream films (apart from Pacific Rim) and is a great way for people unfamiliar with his work to be introduced. He expertly uses his monster experience to make a film that carries a realistic and fantasy tone. He also makes a very brave film that doesn't shy away from unconventional material. We get to see Michael Shannon having sex after his fingers get severed, political assassinations, and a self-pleasuring scene involving an egg timer. Oh, Elisa and the Amphibian Man also experience, let's just say, a special physical connection.The most impressive aspects of the film come from the behind the scenes work. The camera is brilliantly manned by Dan Lausten. It flows freely between the sets to give the film a romantic fantasy feel, but he also uses constant rain, dark colors, and confined spaces to make it feel like a cold war noir. The production design is also outstanding as each set piece is designed with care and precision. It's astonishing that this film was made for only $19.5 million because it looks like it cost more than triple that amount.The actors create one of the best ensembles of the year. They all carry their weight when matched together and make their characters interesting to watch. Hawkins is perfectly cast and leads the show with her signature shy look. She gives the most compelling and passionate performance of the year, all without saying a word. Richard Jenkins also gives an award-worthy supporting performance as Elisa's neighbor, Giles, who is going through a midlife crisis in terms of his career and sexuality. His scenes with Hawkins are astounding, but the ones with him alone aren't as great and take away from the important story. While not breaking any new ground, both Michael Shannon and Octavia Spencer do what they do best. Shannon gives his trademark evil, unhinged authority performance. Spencer does well in a performance very similar to her role in The Help. Michael Stuhlbarg also continues his amazing 2017 (also in Call Me by Your Name, The Post, and on TV with Fargo) by giving a great performance in the little time he has. Shoutout to Doug Jones as well for playing the Amphibian Man. He gives an endearing performance that brings warmth to his naturally cold-blooded character. The Shape of Water is easily one of 2017's best films and deserves all the Oscar nominations it will get. Every person in the cast and crew do their job exceptionally and create a breathtaking cinematic experience that makes you feel like a kid again while also giving you the stuff your adult mind wants to see."
"The shape of water was a very beautiful film by Guillermo Del Torro. Being my first experience with this director, I was surprised by the contrast of romance and love with anger and outsiders. The element of love was extended over various scenes and was created very well. However, I find it quite dissapointing by including the mention and visual representation of intercourse with the amphibian. To conclude, I thoroughly enjoyed this film and found it well produced and directed very well, I feel eight stars would be a perfect review."
"The Shape of Water is Guillermo del Toro's latest epic. We follow Eliza (Sally Hawkins), a mute cleaning assistant and her friend Zelda (Octavia Spencer) as they work deep within a military facility in Cold War United States. Of interest in this facility is \"The Asset\", an amphibian creature of deep intelligence and equally deep ferocity. Its captor, Strickland, is an unfeeling sadist who cannot love but can control and torment. He simply wants a promotion from his military superiors and tortures The Asset at every turn.Thankfully for the Asset, he is discovered by Eliza, who befriends him and helps him escape to her apartment space, which she shares with Giles, an advertising cartoonist who is falling behind the times, as photography is taking over at present. Giles and Eliza communicate well and he helps her store our amphibian friend, and ultimately befriend and save it. The Shape of Water offers much beyond the story, however. It is a visual treat, the interior of the mysterious facility rendered with a remarkable sterility, Giles' apartment comfortable and replete with a bachelor's sundries. References to Soviet spies abound, and one is in fact an integral part of the story.See the Shape of Water for its brilliant acting, fine special effects and perhaps even to regain hope for love between differences."
"A modern fairy-tale centered around the uncanny power of sexuality. Perfect art direction, and Sally Hawkins is a force (she was the best thing about Blue Jasmine, too). The beginning was more Jeunet than delToro, a few hints of Amelie and City of Lost Children, but the movie found its voice about 20 minutes in. It positively revels in its B-movie tropes (Michael Shannon's first scene sets the tone) and takes them to extremes which were not possible back then when the originals were shot, without changing the basic sensibilities.Was there something not to like? There's a side-plot about enemy agents which is completely superfluous; every scene we spend with those cardboard Russians is a scene wasted imho; ads nothing to the story and takes us away from the protagonists. In a fairy-tale things should be kept simple. But overall, while not delToro's best, The Shape of Water is definitely worth a ticket."
"There are many dimensions to the Shape of Water. Ultimately it is a love story. It is a love that seems to defy reason. Elisa (Sally Hawkins) is a janitor working at a government facility, where one day she comes across a mysterious amphibian man like creature (Doug Jones), captured by government agent Richard Strickland (Michael Shannon). Due an injury as a toddler, Elisa cannot talk, and neither can he. From the outset, this relationship between Elisa and the creature is bizarre, and difficult to comprehend. But, if you look closer, their love is the most pure, and the simplest form you could find. They saw each other for who they are, and accepted it. To her, he isn't just a freak of nature. She is fascinated by who he is, and shows kindness and respect for him. Having been isolated and repressed for so long, she finally had someone who didn't judge for her for disability. Although neither of them could talk, they communicated most honestly and warmly. Hawkins and Jones ensured that Elisa and the creature's common language was their authenticity and their vulnerability. Water had a profound symbolic significance for this story. The Shape of Water suggests something is undefined and has no distinctive shape. Water gave oxygen to Elisa and the creature's love. Two of the most memorable scenes in the film involved masterful, artistic use of water. Without water, he could not survive, and she shows her love through being in water with him. Water is their love and freedom and director Guillermo Del Toro lets it bring to the scenes an elegant tranquillity. Hawkins, who was terrific in Blue Jasmine, gave another outstanding performance here. Although she didn't utter a word here, we could still see her soul. Her character and performance reminded of Amy Adams in the Arrival - the anticipation, the apprehension, and curiosity is all portrayed with heartfelt emotion. Del Toro cleverly employs a couple of side-characters to act as her interpreter for us. Through them, we get clear confirmation for what she is thinking, but really, Hawkins had already communicated what she needed to. Those side characters - Giles (Richard Jenkins) - a gay artist Elisa lives with, Zelda (Octavia Spencer) - an African American janitor who works with Elisa and Dr Hoffstetler (Michael Stulbarg) - a scientist who is also a Russian spy during the Cold War, all had something in common with Elisa, they are oppressed and have struggled through torment. Perceived as underdogs, and not really belonging to society, perhaps Del Toro wanted to show that the greatest tolerance comes from those that are already repressed. A monster isn't defined by its appearance. Del Toro boldly contrasts Shannon's Strickland with the creature, and let us decide who the real monster is. I could always rely on Shannon to portray a villain who is despicable, yet immensely intriguing. Strickland is icy cold, and Shannon infuses him with a fierce desperation that is deadly, but relatable. He is tortured on the inside and on the outside, and is often infuriated with himself. I found it amusing that he forces himself to only have positive thoughts - it shows that he is constantly running from the truth. We can see that he constructs a façade that isn't him - a family, a luxury car. It is quite intelligent that Strickland's character accentuates the qualities we value in our protagonists - that is truth, honesty and kindness. I could always trust Del Toro to imagine a world that is exquisitely colourful and exuberant (much like Crimson Peak, Pan's Labyrinth). I have always thought of the theatre as a very romantic place, and to have Elisa live on top of one, was the perfect setting for her romantic heart. The introduction of Elisa and the exposition was expertly crafted, with Alexandre Desplat's buoyant score skilfully complementing the vibrance of her character. The only thing I would have loved to see more of, was the development of Elisa and the creature's relationship, But perhaps it was that simple. We humans tend to complicate love. Perhaps silent dialogue is more truthful than a spoken one. The Shape of Water has elements of many genres. It is not an extremely comfortable film to watch - there are some graphic details of violence, and for some, it will be a strange film. I'd like to describe the film was strangely poetic, and it is fantastic in that once you have a think about what the film is trying to convey - it is actually done in the most poetic way."
"Great actors, set design, great direction. This should not be compared to other films. Some say this is \"Beauty and the Beast meets Splash and the Creature from the Black Lagoon\". 
It IS a basic Good guys vs. Bad guys tale. But it's not that simple, it is much more than that. If you want to Really enjoy this film, just suspend any prejudgement, suspend reality (of course certain things are unbelievable, it's fantasy!) and simply soak it in. 
One can \"read\" a lot of different things into this film, on different levels. 
 
I don't want to spoil this so I suggest you view this film first then come back and read the rest of my review below (scroll down later. See if you agree..............For me the basic message (or lesson) this \"Fairy Tale\" has is that genuine Love looks beyond appearance and sees the inner soul and that this love heals all."
"The Shape of Water is a fantasy film starring Sally Hawkins, Michael Shannon, and Octavia Spencer. Directed and co-written by Guillermo del Toro (Hellboy, Pan's Labyrinth, Pacific Rim), it is an emotional story about friendship and a refreshing return to the fantasy genre from the veteran filmmaker.In the early 1960s in Baltimore, Elisa Esposito (Sally Hawkins), a mute woman, works as a janitor at a top secret government laboratory run by Colonel Richard Strickland (Michael Shannon). One day, the lab receives a humanoid amphibian creature captured from a South American river. Over a period of time, Elisa forms a special bond with the creature and devises a plan to help it escape with her.Visually stunning and poignant, The Shape of Water is exactly the type of film one would expect from Guillermo del Toro and shows that even after more than twenty years in the business, he is still full of surprises. Like Pan's Labyrinth, The Shape of Water feels like a fairy tale for adults, with its storybook-like tone and fantasy elements. The film is uniquely tailored to del Toro's style, as it likely would have been awkward and disturbing in the hands of any other filmmaker. Sally Hawkins was simply brilliant as the mute Elisa Esposito, considering she has no dialogue whatsoever and her acting is entirely visual. Michael Shannon was also great as Colonel Richard Strickland, a man who will stop at nothing to get what he wants.I rate it 8/10"
"Del Toro is such an interesting Director, his original and foreign films like the Devils Backbone (2001) and Labyrinth (2006) are masterworks, beautiful, original and near flawless. Then on the flipside he makes brainless American action films like the Hellboy/Pacific Rim movies.Thankfully this despite being American is in his original wonderful style and gripped me from the outset.It tells the story of a mute cleaner during the 60's working inside of a military base who discovers their secret \"Asset\".Starring Michael Shannon and Richard Jenkins it is flattered with a stunning soundtrack, amazing visuals and brilliant performances.Much in a film noir style The Shape Of Water is deserving of its 4 Oscars and though I don't think it's on the same level as Pans Labyrinth it is still note worthy and well worth a viewing.The Good:Looks greatFantastic scoreVery originalThe Bad:\"That\" dance sceneThe creature is basically Abe SapienThings I Learnt From This Movie:If a man has sex with an animal it's bestiality, if a woman does it's artistic and beautiful"
"\"The Shape of Water\" is one of the best films of the year.The beauty of this film is Del Toro's gift of telling fantastical stories, but still giving them heart and crafting well-rounded characters...A Masterpiece by Guillermo del Toro..."
"This is a romantic fantasy drama, set in the 1960's at a top secret laboratory, a very tender love story between a mute cleaning woman and a captured 'sea monster', both isolated due to their individual circumstances and incapable of human speech.Starring Sally Hawkins, she is the mute, and has access to all the top secret areas in order to clean them. Octavia Spencer is also a cleaner, and crucial to the plot later. Richard Jenkins is her neighbour and Michael Shannon, is brilliant as the evil government security agent in charge of the 'monster'. It becomes obvious that he is more of a monster than the actual monster! The 'monster' is also referred to as the 'asset' and is being studied for any advantages that it could offer the USA military in the cold war with Russia. The mute says so much in her attitude, she offers the monster compassion and care, she slowly grows fond of the monster and builds a friendship through boiled eggs, sign language and music. The relationship develops further and grows into love. When she hears they propose to kill the monster she urgently plans to help it escape, houses it at her home and eventually set it free into the sea. This film has a very atmospheric, classic look, is about characters that are misfits but have inner beauty. 13 Oscar nominations."
"This film is a great example of when a director truly makes the film that they wanted to. This is the story that Del Toro wanted to tell and it is told exceptionally well. The Shape of Water boasts great performances from its cast with Sally Hawkins delivering an outstanding and passionate portrayal of a mute woman who falls in love with a monster simply due to the fact that it accepts her for who she is and doesn't see her faults. The film's characters however can fall into stereotypes with Octavia Spencer playing a sassy black character and Michael Shannon playing a bible verse spouting badguy but nevertheless these parts are played well. The films also fully embraces its 1960's setting, celebrating the music and TV culture at the time and this adds a feature of charm to the film. In the end The Shape of Water is a charming, well written monster film with only some minor flaws but these do not draw away from the viewing experience."
"Going into this film, I had already heard a lot of the award season buzz, so I knew that there were at least some really good parts about it. And that buzz was not wrong; this movie is spectacular. Literally, this film is a spectacle. The visuals of this movie are gorgeous- the colors pop brilliantly, the shots are stunning and unique, the lighting is dynamic and intriguing, and the effects are incredibly impressive. The Amphibian Man looks fantastic. He really looks like he's there, and the combination of CG and Prosthetics work incredibly well together. What carries this film, along with the effects, are the performances- the whole cast of this film is brilliant. Sally Hawkins gives an outstanding performance as Eliza. She's poignant and sympathetic and stunning, and the angle of her being mute really carries her performance, and also carries her relationship with the Amphibian Man. Michael Shannon's performance as well, as well as the reflection of his character against the setting of the 1960's, is really enlightening and interesting. His last line is my favorite line in the movie. The problem's I have with this film mostly stem from the third act, where things start to get a little cheesy and predictable, but the ending is still very well earned. This movie has elements of a a great fairy tale, and has a lot of potential to become a classic story. 8.3/10"
"I love the films directed by Guillermo del Toro, so I was waiting for The Shape of Water.
We follow the story of a woman who falls in love with a strange aquatic creature, during the 60s. We also have an amazing cinematography, a great cast and some good subplots full of metaphors about racism, homosexuality, patriotism and male chauvinism during that decade. That's one of the things I loved more.I didn't hate anything about this movie, but there are some points that could be better, as: the main antagonist, he's just stupid and weak if I compare him with the sadistic and scary Captain Vidal from Pan's Labyrinth. I liked the main creature it but I missed the typical mystery and charisma that we can appreciate in some Del Toro's monsters.The Shape of Water isn't the best movie from one of the most amazing directors of all time, but stills good and perhaps one of the best movies of the year.Rating 7.5/10"
"I enjoyed the movie thoroughly. I find that is difficult to sit through Oscar bait after a long day at work but I sat in my chair without interruption. The soundtrack was phenomenal. It was the first attribute of the film that I noticed. It felt like stepping through a wormhole and going to the 1960's. Every detail was so well done. From a man battling with his own sexuality in a society where this has caused him to lose his job and his friends, to the racist remarks from the pie serving prick, del Torro depicts the era with flawless determination.I also feel like the relationship between the asset and Elisa develops swiftly and could have developed as the movie progressed. The sexuality between them should have been implied. The relationship became weird for some once the vulgarity of mating with a completely different species sets in. Overall it was an interesting and original piece that deserves its praises and nominations."
"I saw this at Night Visions event in November. This is really exceptional film. 
One of the best movies of 2017 easily. Everything about this is top notch the acting, set design and the plot. This tooks place in year 1962 and Sally Hawkins plays main character who is mute Elisa who works at the hidden high-security government laboratory as janitor with her co-worker Zelda played by Octavia Spencer. Elisa's life changes when she discovers a secret classified experiment and its not somethign ordinary. Doug Jones is excellent as the water creature. Supporting cast is also very good. Michael Shannon plays once again very good villain role. There is great humour once awhile. Highlight of this movie is Sally Hawkins she is amazing. 
Overall this I love this movie. I highly recommend this to all Del Toro fans you wont be disappointed."
"One of the most impressive parts of The Shape of Water will probably go unstated by many, because it is easy to overlook. It is stunning how much chemistry a woman who never talks and a fish monster can have. The energy between them radiates, and I had to keep stopping myself to consciously think about what a feat that truly is. As a direct result to how great the writing, directing, and performances are, this relationship between a woman and a monster never feels strange. If done by lesser talent, this could have come across as very weird or wrong. But del Toro crafts this film in such a way that it never comes across in this manner. In fact, in feels only natural, and that is applause-worthy on his part. That is the single biggest thing that Del Toro needed to pull off flawlessly, and he rises to meet the challenge. As with every Guillermo del Toro movie, the production elements are all spectacular. Del Toro really has a great understanding of mise-en-scène, something I'm continuously taken aback by every time I watch a movie of his. His cinematography isn't usually something that lunges out at you and calls attention to itself; rather, it works to very subtly draw you into the film. I do very much like cinematography that stands out and pops, but there is also something to be said for more the subtle kind of shooting a film. Del Toro has a strong hold on his production design. From the set design to the costume design to the color palette, every del Toro movie has a clear direction that is unique to its own story, and this film is no exception...
"
"There is something endearing about director Guillermo Del Toro - a childlike enthusiasm, a genuine passion for cinema in general and genre movies in particular - which sets him apart from both the cash-grab cynicism and the workmanlike indifference of many of his peers. The Shape of Water has the peculiar Del Toro touch - a sincerity which makes this fantasy romance work.Set during the Cold War, the movie follows the relationship between mute janitor Elisa (Sally Hawkins) and a mysterious amphibian man (Doug Jones) kept prisoner in the government facility where she works; as brutal Strickland (Michael Shannon) plans to vivisect the creature, Elisa decides to free it with the help of her friends Zelda (Octavia Spencer) and Giles (Richard Jenkins) and the cooperation of a sympathetic scientist who happens to be a Russian spy (Michael Stuhlbarg).This is a beautiful film, shot with grace and style, dominated by a sea-green color palette, with impeccable set design and costumes. Del Toro's films feel visually rich without showing off; there are no unmotivated camera movements, no \"five minutes steady cam shot just because I can\". I was amazed to learn this movie has a meagre (for Hollywood standards) 20 million dollars budget.Hawkins is luminous and compelling as the lead. Del Toro's regular Jones is wonderfully expressive - his amphibian being has a physical presence only practical effects and make-up can achieve. Shannon's Strickland is an effective villain, with his cattle prod, rotten fingers and a sociopathic streak somehow flying under the radar of his Norman Rockwell family. Del Toro has this gift for creating antagonists who are over-the-top horrible (see also the Captain in Pan's Labyrinth) and yet, strangely enough, they don't end up as boring caricatures. Spencer and Jenkins bring pathos and humanity to the potentially cliched roles of the sassy black friend and the quirky gay neighbour. The beginning of the relationship between Elisa and the creature, while lovely, feels a little rushed - too quick and unproblematic on the part of Elisa, who is cooking eggs and playing Benny Goodman for her amphibian pal before you can say \"The Shadow over Innsmouth\". This cavalier attitude towards supernatural threats is also part of the Del Toro touch, I guess, with the kind of unfazed acceptance of the unusual and weird you usually find in fairy tales.7,5/10"
"I'd never seen a Guillermo Del Toro movie before, but I'd heard of his movies and I was expecting an odd, fantastical film. \"The Shape of Water\" doesn't disappoint on that score, but I enjoyed the movie. The amphibious creature is very impressive. The movie makes you believe that the woman could fall for him. Octavia keeps it all real with her performance and earthy, snappy lines of dialogue. Michael Shannon gives his usual fine performance as the creature's cruel captor and keeper. His character is certainly \"over the top\" with his manner and cruelty. The sets are very impressive--the viewer is immersed in 1962 paranoid, cold war America. And of course the female lead actress deserves an Oscar for her portrayal of the mute janitor. She portrays so much emotion--love, desperation, kindness, anger--without a word. I will never be sure what motivates someone to write and direct such a story but congratulations to Mr. Del Toro!"
"The Shape of Water (2017): I would say this is the kind of film that's more of an experience rather than a movie. Walking out of it, it feels like you just had a really beautiful, odd and emotional dream. Now I'm gonna warn you right away, this isn't a movie for everyone, but I think if you're the right kind of person for it, you already know that you'll like it. It's very art-house, it's very Guillermo Del Toro, it's very weird. Overall I really enjoyed \"The Shape of Water\", it leaves you with a good fuzzy feeling in your heart. I loved seeing every frame of it since Guillermo has a very distinctive and stylized look and tone. He manages to create a real world but with a dash of magic and fairy tale to it. The cinematography was absolutely astonishing (especially the colours), set design/costumes/etc were fantastic, the creature was really cool and pleasant to the eye (good mix of practical and CGI), the acting was good (even though the Russian was iffy). My only problem with the movie was the fact that it felt a little too long, I think a couple of tiny things could've been cut here and there and the movie would've been just as good. There's also a couple of things that felt unaddressed but as the viewer you let it slide and forget about them since you're focused on the main story. Basically, if you knew about this movie and you were interested in seeing it, see it. If you don't know anything about it or the works of Del Torro, probably don't. If I had to boil it down (egg joke) to a score it would be somewhere around 7.5/10 P/SDo NOT see it with kids unless you want to have some VERY awkward moments."
"As the director of the highest class, Guillermo del Toro showed himself at the beginning of his career when he happened to put a charming Chronos and truly frightening \"Mutants\", which allowed the Mexican master to gain a foothold on American soil and continue further creative research. Each film del Toro, whether it be frightening mysticism, horror or screen adaptation of a graphic novella, has a powerful emotional charge, profound reasoning and breaking any barriers by the power of love, to which the director has a special relationship. Invariably putting his hand to writing the script, the director does everything necessary for the veil of special effects to reveal the true feelings between intelligent creatures who understand the true value of relations between loved ones. For del Toro, it is not important what kind of love grows in his paintings. It can permeate the relationship of a man and a woman, or vice versa, have a strong kinship. Value has only a manifestation of its essence in all sensual beauty. And then even the most impenetrable gloom retreats to the side, leaving only light on the review, which it is not possible to overcome other feelings. \"Hellboy\", \"Labyrinth of the Faun\", \"Crimson Peak\" and other author's achievements del Toro always attracted special attention from the audience. When the director could bypass the intrusive attention of producers, a truly unforgettable show comes from under his hands. The same is the \"Form of water\", a rich, catchy and at the same time delicate work that keeps us in suspense until the very end.So, the plot of the film unfolds in the early 60s of the last century and introduces us to the silent cleaning lady Eliza Ezpozito (Sally Hawkins), who managed to get a job in a secret government laboratory. Having found herself far from the city noise and a society that she can not accept the way she is, Sally is sitting out at work all day long and tries to do everything necessary to avoid paying too much attention to her. And let the work with the mop and buckets do not bring her special pleasure, the heroine finds time to delve into her own thoughts and create in the imagination a wonderful world in which no one else can penetrate her. Having no close friends, much less a lover, Eliza tries to look for joy in sheer little things and for a long time nothing foreshadowed the rapid development in her personal relationships, when suddenly the girl seems to know the most important secret around which the secret laboratory's activities are built. It turns out that under the care of the sinister Colonel Strickland (Michael Shannon) is a sensible amphibian (Doug Jones), an unknown creature trapped in a closed reservoir and amenable to constant experiments. Accidentally meeting with the marvelous creature with a glance, Eliza suddenly realizes that this meeting is far from accidental and it is quite possible that a feeling arises between it and the amphibian, which can not be designated otherwise than love. And when it becomes known that the underwater guest faces a deadly danger, Eliza will not sit aside, since for the first time in her life she has found a soul mate and is ready to sacrifice everything for the sake of her salvation.
\"The shape of the water\", undoubtedly, stands out with special importance against the background of the other works of Del Toro, since it was born at the moment when its creator had already visited the peak of universal adoration, and then dabbed the reputation with ambiguous projects and decisions that called doubts. But for all his creative mistakes Del Toro not only did not lower his hands, but became only a more perspicacious and skilful creator, who with each new work is put more inspired and restless. Seeing us in the world of brutal servicemen, unfortunate cleaners and innocent magical creatures, the master used the motifs of classical drama and tragedy, surprised with serious emotional strokes and was not afraid to demonstrate strong feelings with all the staging power that not only amazes but also frightens, Like a real horror film. And in order for all the elements of the \"Formula of Water\" to converge, Del Toro needed exceptional actors, able to revive his characters and create experiences that would not have to be doubted. Fortunately, his idea interested only in respectable performers who could easily abandon a large fee in favor of serving the arts.Sally Hawkins, the confident and sought-after actress, who rarely trusts roles in big blockbusters, of course, became the soul of this film, but her talent and ability to get used to the images gradually becomes legendary. Agreeing to embody Del Toro's fantasies in life, Hawkins played a strikingly sensual role that attracts maximum attention and makes her soul sympathize with the tragedy of the unhappy girl's relationship with a creature from a different world. In turn, a good friend of the director, Doug Jones, was no less brilliant party to match Hawkins, and thereby allowed the actress to reveal the full range of dramatic experiences through the impeccable performance of the image of an amphibian man who caused in a dumb beauty a storm of unprecedented emotions for her. For obvious reasons, we again do not see the true appearance of Jones, but he has repeatedly performed in front of the camera a variety of strange creatures and in the \"Formula of Water\" reached the apogee of skill, after which it will be difficult for him to play a piercing role.In the end, I want to say that the \"Form of Water\" tells us a love story that is simple and yet unprecedentedly beautiful and soulful. Guillermo del Toro shot the film the way he himself wanted and thanks to this \"Form of Water\" looks like a really chic authoring film."
"To communicate or not to communicate. Sometimes is just out of fear that we don't come close to the ones who can give us exactly what we need. They're different, let's stay away. Sally Hawkins in a magical but beautifully real performance invites us to try, to dare. Guillermo del Toro takes us through the paces with extraordinary delicacy and clarity of vision. Thank you."
"The Shape of Water is a new take on a very old story as a lowly cleaning woman falls in love with an unusual creature and must protect it from the authorities who wish to destroy it. While the story is not original, harking to films as diverse as Beauty and the Beast, ET and Free Willy, the film is still a delight to watch. Written and directed by Guillermo DelToro, the film is similar in style to much of his work, combining his usual magical fantasy with gritty, sometimes violent social realism.Sally Hawkins is delightful as the mute cleaner working in a secret government facility where the water creature is held. Her performance is wonderfully expressive and there is great interplay between her and co-stars Richard Jenkins as her neighbour and Octavia Spencer as her colleague.
Michael Shannon growls and bites devilishly as the villain out to kill the creature and anyone who gets in his way.The film wears its 1960's setting well with frequent references to cold war politics, the space race and contemporary culture. While the film also pays adoring homage to older cinema including a lovely dance scene evocative of early musicals.Alexandre Desplat's soaring score beautifully underlines the film.Overall, despite the weak story, the film is a joy to watch. Well acted by a fantastic cast and visually sumptuous, the film is one of Del Toro's best."
"Few filmmakers have the ability to present a story in a way that is unmistakably unique these days, in the swirling miasma of cookie-cutter movies that are exhaustingly predictable and rely heavily on pyrotechnics and CGI to make up for the lack of heart. But Guillermo del Toro fills The Shape of Water to the brim with a genuineness rarely seen.Set in 1960's Baltimore, this story is a bit Romeo and Juliet, a bit Beauty and the Beast, except in this instance the beast is the one that appears outwardly normal. A mute custodian with a case of curiosity killed the cat syndrome (Sally Hawkins) becomes entangled in a tug-of-war between American and Soviet government powers after she discovers a creature being held hostage by the facility she works at, and her endlessly kind heart won't allow herself to let them use it as their pawn. The villain of this story, Strickland (Michael Shannon), proves to be one of the most complex characters. He serves up no shortage of the aforementioned beastly qualities, projecting his frustrations of his failings as a man and subsequent own self-hatred on everyone around him in a variety of ways. Torture, intimidation, emotional manipulation, racism, verbal and physical abuse and sexual harrassment are all employed by him, even a lack of basic hygiene is displayed as he fails to wash his hands after urinating in the first scene the audience is properly introduced to him. Despite all this, del Toro and Shannon still manage to make it clear that while this character wields a considerable amount of power, we get quite clearly the feeling that he is also powerless - a sad, joyless man with a lack of connection to his family and a lack of any kind of fulfilling relationships in his life, grasping at threads of power in the hopes of catching one and somehow finding the innate sense of pride and worth he has always been searching for. People respond to him out of fear rather than out of respect. He is a puppet of the system, under the thumb of greater authority and he knows it. It fills him with a rage that he takes out on anyone who either earns - or doesn't earn - his ire.Elisa (Hawkins) shines with a genuinely heartfelt performance. Meek and often terrified of the brutality she sees around her, but also tough in her own way, the audience will find it difficult not to like her. Entirely without verbal dialogue, Hawkins is successful in portraying the kind spirit, gutsy strength and quirky personality of Elisa. Likewise, her screen partner The Asset (Doug Jones) delivers a very convincing portrayal of a creature that's not quite man and not quite animal. He moves in a unique way that is signature to Jones but yet has a quality (and statuesque figure) also reminiscent of the god that some of the film's characters wonder if he is. Zelda (Octavia Spencer) and Giles (Richard Jenkins) are the perfect kind of kindred spirits, with Giles being a realist and Zelda being motherly at the appropriate times that Elisa needs them to provide that for her. Like her, they share qualities that render them \"imperfect\" in the society of the time; Zelda is a woman of colour, Giles is gay, and all of them have a greater than average sense of empathy.Particularly and curiously impressive is the way opposing elements in this film fit so perfectly together - drama, horror, comedy and even whimsy-filled musical routines all somehow work in harmony with each other in a way that feels very natural. The fairy-tale elements are balanced carefully with the more adult aspects of the story, so while there are certainly some tear-jerking and frightening moments, viewers still leave at the end with a feeling of magic and inspiration. Plausible and implausible scenes and elements work so well together that the audience can easily accept the story for what it is.The only real criticism to put forth is that the development of the relationship between Elisa and The Asset is patchy - we see snippets of their admiration for each other growing, but then it seems to take a leap between friendship and deeper intimacy that the audience feels a bit left out on. The film follows Strickland and Giles' characters more closely as far as interpersonal relationships go, something that the film could have used more of for greater development of Elisa's character and deeper understanding from the audience of how much she has really suffered. The character of The Asset is never truly developed either - however, this may be very intentional as del Toro stated in previous interviews that the creature represents something different to everyone. Perhaps it is up to the viewer to decide what he represents for them. In some ways, this renders the character an eternal victim - always being used for something by someone. For governments, a weapon; for Giles, an artistic muse; for Strickland, a punching bag to offload his anger onto; and for Elisa, a recipient for her love and intimate desires. Although the creature reciprocates her affections, we can't shake the fact that he never really initiates them, just follows suit, leading one to wonder what decisions he would make in that matter (or any) if he had the freedom to do so.With all its complex beauty and freshness, The Shape of Water is a must-see for those wishing to experience a film that's truly new, and to feel the true soul that comes forth in it."
"Ok, The Shape of Water definitely isn't a movie for the big public, it's incredible weird (as almost every Del Toro movie), and unusual, but at the same time I can pass a beautiful and complex message about love.Before talk about the movie as a whole, I need to point some fantastic aspects of it. The acting is very good, Sally Hawkins and Octavia Spencer (as you may already know) shine in the movie, and their nominations are undoubt deserved, but Michael Shannon also shows again that he is a freaking monster, he once again destroys in the role. I really think that he deserved at least a Oscar nomination here (probably more than Richard Jenkins, that is also very good, but not as good as Shannon).The cinematography and the photography is gorgeous, Del Toro shows us once again that he is one of the most unique directors working today, the guy has a style, and it shines here.Talking about that, Del Toro direction is freaking amazing too, everything is beautiful, the actors are shining, the guy will probably won the Oscar tonight, and it will be deserved.And, of course, the overall message of the movie, the prejudice, the feeling that some have, that they are alone in the world, how hard it is for some people to find love, and how painful it is for those who end up never finding. And is really fantastic how Del Toro is able to talk about such subjects with a movie about a big fish monster that make love with a woman. Really, think about it, what were the odds of this end up been just a creepy and laughable movie? The concept sounds extremely cheesy but the final result is fantastic.All the visual effects also are fantastic, and the movie does not had a big budget, so, is another achievement here.Probably the only issue that I can have with the movie is that in some point it seems like it's going to end without a climax, but it kinda \"forces\" somethings to happen, in order to have a \"big finally confront\", you know, it doesn't make the movie less great, but was what prevented the movie to be a 10/10 to me. I think that they also could have given more time to the build of the relationship between the Fish and Elisa, over all you buy it, but it feels a little bit rushy.Well, in short, The Shape of Water is a great piece of work by Guillermo Del Toro, has a beautiful and powerful message, that is told in a unique and odd way. Another great movie from the 2018 Oscar's, right now I saw 7/9 from the Best Picture Nominees, and just one was under the 8/10 grade."
"After watching the trailer, I found myself quite uninterested. I like Guillermo Del Toro's designs, but the 'genre', I suppose, just didn't pull me in.I ended up seeing this film on a whim (mainly went for Odeon Nacho's) and left with a new film to add to my list of favourites.The sets were all absolutely gorgeous throughout. I loved the casting choices and felt like they worked excellently. The music was phenomenal, and the story took me to an emotional place I really didn't expect. I don't want to go too deeply into it, or reveal any spoilers, so I'll try to summarise why I think I enjoyed it so much.If you're a fan of 'retro/vintage', you'll already appreciate this films aesthetic and sound. That was a huge pull for me once I started watching. If you're into excellent creature design, it's a Del Toro flick... I feel as though it also had a lovely tinge of war time drama in there too, for good measure. I'm not usually a fan of romance plots, but this one really resonated with me. For all of those reasons, I enjoyed the film from beginning to end. Even if the scenes were particularly slow or not to my tastes, I found myself captured by the soundtrack, or the fantastic set design.If any of what I've said makes sense to you, I'd recommend this film absolutely."
"I am very surprised at all the haters of this movie. I had heard so many awful reports about it. How it didn't deserve the Academy Award etc. The only thing I hadn't heard was what the film was about. So I parked my cynicism for a couple of hours and I was not one bit disappointed. I loved the whole story, predictable maybe but so what? It was beautifully shot, narrated and portrayed. I felt with the characters and for the characters. It made me feel like I was 10 again and watching ET for the very first time. I absolutely LOVED it. Do yourself a favour and make up your own mind about it. Don't be swayed by opinion because it is a very personal storyline. You may just love it, you may just hate it but either way, you will never get the two hours back anyway!"
"Sensational director Guillermo del Toro is back to his roots with The Shape of Water. And it's making a serious splash.The Shape of Water takes audiences back to the fairy-tale style of earlier movies. The story explores the relationship between mute cleaner Elsa and the creature at the government facility where she works. The premise and plot are a little bizarre, but comfortably so. The plot seems interwoven around some deeper message, as is the case with most of his movies. But there is no explicit social commentary. It is the audience's job to fill that gap.The cold war backdrops The Shape of Water, but it never delves too deep into the background conflict. The cold war element of the movie serves more as a cinematic backdrop than a scathing social commentary, like in Pan's Labyrinth.Del Toro uses a generous amount of tropes, especially regarding Michael Shannon's classic bad- guy role. But with the lighter tone, the movie is freer to explore other themes: love, unity, oneness. Or rather, we are freer to explore the themes within the film.The Shape of Water is at heart a love story, although it feels abstracted enough as to be universally symbolic.Neither the creature or Elsa can speak, and it is through this commonality that they transcend differences of species. And symbolically, other boundaries like race, class, gender, and sexuality. But it's difficult to entirely indulge in the symbolism when the couple grows more intimate with each other. Things get a little strange then, but it's all light-hearted.The creature design was also the best we've seen yet from del Toro. He has always favoured physical costume design over post-production. The amphibian man is no different. He looks all the more real for his physical design. This feels homelier amidst the huge shift towards digital effects in modern cinema. There is still some digital effects, but they aren't noticeable. The amphibian man is of course played by long-time collaborator, Doug Jones, who plays nearly all of del Toro's monsters. His acting is impeccable, as is lead actress Sally Hawkins's.The relationships between other characters is excellently written and performed. The one-sided dialogue between Elsa and every other character is surprisingly evocative. This puts all the more emphasis on Elsa and the amphibian man's relationship.The colour scheme of the movie really sets it out visually. The vast majority of the sets are coloured entirely in varying shades of blue and green: a kind of teal. This reflects the coldness of the outside world, the coldness of water, and also the historical context."
"This is a brilliant movie, a clever fable positioned by Guillermo del Toro in the early 60s, when a fair prince rulled the country, and every thing seemed simpler and more straight forward. And this is precisely what the fable telling us - it never was simple and straight forward. The biggest patriot could be a monster in disguise, the traitor could hide a kind soul inside and a mute, may speak out the clearest of all when calling us all to be more human.I'll be repeating everyone else saying how beautiful it is. The set design, the CGI, the editing, the cinemtography. Every minute detail combines to create a fairytale setting in early 60s Baltimore, and it's so perfectly done that one feels that both parts of the reality presented in the movie are indeed real. The acting is part of the truthful feel of the film Michael Shannon, Richard Jenkins, Michael Stuhlbarg, Octavia Spencer and everybody else in this magnificient cast, Topped by Sally Hawkins, who deserves an Oscar, which I fear she won't get, because some consider her being a mute in the film a less complete performance. In my book it's a perfect 10. I haven't seen such level of perfection in acting since Hugh Jackman in Logan, and he never got nominated.I have my reasons for ranking this masterpiece just 9 (should've been a 9.5+) but I don't think these are important. The movie is so close to perfection the tiny faults it does have, become insignificant. Just go see it if you get a chance."
"This movie is a masterpiece. It is perfectly balanced with different kinds of emotions. It is thoroughly enjoyable, heart touching and thrilling as well. One should not miss some plots in the movie like the girl was found aside the river and had marks on neck and could not speak since then. So this could be an minute indication that she was meant to be a mermaid. well! i thought it that way."
"A perfect and complete package of emotion and love."
"Simply a great film and for those that gave it a low score they've never been in love. The film score nails it too, go see and it will touch you."
"Sublime and wonderful performances from all major characters. I don't think I've seen a more intricately detailed movie - both in set design and character development. Touching depictions of 1960's bigotry that are subtle and realistic. So original. A must see!"
"Among my favorite directors is Guillermo del Toro. The guy has one of the most unique artistic and cinematic visions in the world of film. His inspiration to become a filmmaker was \"Creature from the Black Lagoon\" of all things. Del Toro's love the Gill Man translated to his passion for monsters, though he felt sad that the famed amphibian never got a happy ending. Initially, he was brought in by Universal to remake it, but that deal went south, so he decided to more-or-less tell his own version of the story, adding a new spin that surprisingly won over both audiences and awards. That, folks, is \"The Shape of Water\", a movie I've wanted to see since its inception. Plot: In this variation of beauty and the beast, a mute janitor named Eliza (Sally Hawkins), who works in a government facility, meets the Asset (Doug Jones), a fish-like humanoid from South America, and the two form an unconventional relationship. With the Asset under threat of death and subsequent vivisection by the unstable Col. Strickland (Michael Shannon), Eliza will go to great lengths to ensure the creature's survival and happiness, but will she succeed in a world so unwilling to accept that which is different?This is, indeed, a masterpiece. The Asset is an amazing character with a stellar design and a performance that feels believable (animal yet human-like). Props to Jones and the effects team for making the suit and facial expressions work with flying colors. Sally Hawkins gets high marks from her own performance, a mix of sign language and heartstring-pulling facial expressions. The pair work well together as much as their characters. The rest of the cast did very well too from Shannon's execution of a threatening villain who feels unfulfilled (a product of the era) to Octavia Spencer's humorous inflections to sympathetic portrayals by Richard Jenkins and Michael Stuhlbarg. There is also much needed credit to the world itself. It replicates the time of which the story is set in very well with many great uses of color, music, and an assortment of objects that are relics by today's standards. The best part of it all is that a majority is physically built with not much in the way of CGI save for backgrounds and a few other aesthetics. Color is also used to convey mood or symbolize a character's status (physical or emotional) and water, as the title implies, is very prominent and more or less serves both a physical and symbolic purpose as well. What little lore that exists in this world intrigues me to no end with many open-ended questions, especially in regards to the fish man. As the film is set in the 1960s, themes of racism/sexism, Cold War tensions, minor religious references, and the classic question of what separates man from monster are explored, all done with superb execution in this case. Heck, the Asset is ideal in that he can represent just about any group that suffers unjust oppression.Fair warning that, unlike Disney's \"Beauty and the Beast\", this is not for children. There is a little blood + gore, language, and sex/nudity (especially one controversial scene involving the latter in a bathroom). All in all, \"The Shape of Water\" is, like the abnormal pair, a thing of beauty, one that I imagine will be marveled for generations to come."
"A movie you won't want to miss for the sheer fun & sometimes tense, but predictable drama. Probably a Best Picture nominee."
"A beautiful and sensual masterpiece of Guillermo Del Toro. Its one of the most creative stories in years, that's for sure, even if the subtle storyline refers to the famous \"Beauty and the Beast\" theme. Its a brave film that works even due to fantastical elements mostly because of the great amount of emotions from what the film lives. Not only the story is creative, so are the characters, especially in the way the are connected. Another great choice was to have all lead characters with a burden. You have a mute lead the film, a gay loner being the second lead and a colored help being one of the greatest heroins. 
Sally Hawkins was fantastic. She really has a brilliant year with this and \"Maudie\". One more prove that she is such a versatile actress. The performance she delivered was so tender and soulful, that you must love that character. Michael Shannon was the villain, and while most of his actions were a bit stereotypical, the character was not. He got an interesting backstory and was very well developed. Shannon himself went beyond that and once again gives a very intense and memorable performance. Richard Jenkins had many great and memorable moments that really stick with you. He makes you care for his role from the first appearance on screen to his last. And you feel sorry for him all the time because of the very natural turn he did. Octavia Spencer is a true scene stealer. Her speciality to mix wit with seriousness works here just perfectly. Its a great role for Spencer and she possibly gives her best performance since \"The Help\". There is so much going on behind her eyes. You really miss her when she is not on screen. The score is beautiful the look is tremendous and Del Toro told the story like a novel. Sometimes he let it go a bit, especially towards the end but generally it is a very intense and focused direction. 
Surely a film that sticks with you and I am glad that Hollywood did not lose all its creativity."
"Just saw The Shape of Water and it a masterpiece.
This movie is so beautiful it so tragic and magical.
The actors are amazing and deliver some really good performances, performances that's actually deserve to be nominated. The visuals were stunning the quality of the image was epic. The direction was done perfectly. One of the weirdest but most beautiful love story I have ever seen. This movie was a dream I felt different watching this movie. The romance was touching the characters were so charming. The gory stuff was really welll done it followed everything, it felt like a real life situations even if the main story was about a monster. This movie was just so well done it deserve itself a nomination at the Oscar for best Picture ! Watch it, it can be hard to watch but it beautiful just give it a try and give it time it no Action movie, it a good movie a must see !"
"It's so funny that I went to watch this movie in a theater just after I was so disappointed by the latest Tarentino (Quint being in my top 5 Directors of all times), Hateful Eight, I just watched on a big Home Cinema on Netflix.
Here, it is such a great story, so inventive and colorful, so well played, with such great decors and outfits and hairstyle from the 50's or 60's (man, the cars, all so beautiful!). Congratulations Guillermo, you did a really great job here, not the first time, I loved Pan's labyrinth and Hellboy as well back in the day, that movie is first quality and deserves the prices it got granted."
"The director Guillermo del Toro delivers a timeless story of love and terror mixing different influences since 60's noir and espionage films passing through Walt Disney's tales until German terror movies from the beginning of 20's century. Actually, he offers well-built scenes showing the little monsters and lovers that inhabit each one of the film's characters when they cross the creature way, an Amazon human form being that embodies nature itself. The main character is a mute janitor working to a military scientific facility where the creature is studied. The screenplay chooses her to bare both the social prejudice of being handicapped and a housecleaning hard worker. In fact, she lives stoically her life while dreaming of a better one in her bathtub of a small apartment over an old cinema theater. Thus, from this little place, she plans how to release the creature and herself. The last scene brings the film's synthesis encapsulated in two sentences: \"when you don´t see the form, the form is everywhere\". A final message that portrays the possibility of being loved no matter form you and your love have. Great film!"
"I was not prepared for this movie. I mean I knew there was something out of the ordinary in it but I was just not ready for it. It's like Amelie x The Fly, that's the best way I can put it so at least you kinda know what you're getting into.Elisa is a mute that works as a cleaner for a US government facility that has recently come into possession an \"asset\" that might prove useful in pushing the US forward against USSR in the Space Race. In time she develops an understanding with the creature and moves heaven and earth in order to save it from experimentation and possible extermination.Bringing this extraordinary story to life is a mix of kooky characters led by Elisa played by Sally Hawkins, who was able to communicate more than those who had speaking lines attesting to her well-deserved Oscar nomination for Best Actress. The relatable Giles (he has a cat! he loves showbusiness! he has a crush on the pie guy!) is Richard Jenkins (who you might remember from HBO's Six Feet Under), Dmitri the Soviet spy you'll root for portrayed by the talented Michael Stuhlberg (if you thought Timothee Chalamet will have a problem choosing where to sit at the Oscars, at the Call Me By Your Name or Lady Bird section, Michael has CMBYN, the Post and then this movie). Also worth mentioning is Michael Shannon as Strickland who's a menacing presence to behold more so even than the creature in his possession.What I like about the movie is it celebrates the outcasts of society: a Spanish mute, a lonely old gay man, an African-American woman who lives for her husband, and the captured creature itself. We often see through the eyes of gorgeous leading men and women, but what it's like to be among the loneliest of the lonely? This movie answers it and it's not as sad as one would think. There's a certain beauty in the way they live their lives.After watching, I didn't know how to feel or am quite unable to put into words what my thoughts are of it. I feel like I was assaulted, but not really, you know? Maybe it's one of the movies that you either get it or you don't and I'm glad this was one of those times that I did.Favorite Quote: \"Unable to perceive the shape of You, I find You all around me. Your presence fills my eyes with Your love, It humbles my heart, For You are everywhere.\""
"The Shape Of WaterDragging a man by holding his mouth with only two fingers and crushing or pulling out one's wrecked fingers and a cat being eaten by are not only the scenes that will give you goosebumps but it also lets you cringe yourself on the seat whilst on the other side of it it also contains some genuinely beautiful and innocent scenes like common taste of music and sense of similar symptoms and one of the best is water dripping in the theater. The Shape Of Water isn't just a good movie that came across this year; \"year\" isn't the territory it fits in, it is one of the decades or centuries finest of all. Guillermo del Toro sings all of his love to the phantasmagorical genre films on the highest note possible raising the bar for everyone which won't be easy to surpass. Sally Hawkins; as I have mentioned earlier too, is just soothing on the screen, her calmness, rage, love, fear or even funny emotions just rain drops all over the movie. Michael Shannon is dreadful in it and with all his furious in his eyes and persona he completely overpowers the opposite actors on screen and along with the help of some of the best actors doing their best work (Octavia Spencer, Doug Jones and Richard Jenkins) the film manages to enter the major league easily. The Shape Of Water is filled with hope (that's irony, considering its premise), practicality, amusement and hiding along with all of this, horror."
"I was stunned this year when they announced the winner for the best picture category at the Oscars. How could it possibly be that a movie whose description reads like a low budget horror film from the fifties could win top prize? And from a director known for movies filled with comic book heroes, monsters, ghosts and tales of fantasy? And yet it happened. Now that movie makes its way to disc.The film takes place in the early 1960s in a government run research facility. Unlike most places we've seen in the past this location actually employs people to do real every day jobs like clean the place up. Elisa Esposito (Sally Hawkins) is a young mute woman who works the janitorial staff alongside her friend Zelda Fuller (Octavia Spencer). When not working she shares an apartment over a movie theater with her advertising artist best friend Giles (Richard Jenkins).Something big is going on at the facility with the arrival of several people. First is a scientists named Dr. Hoffstetler (Michael Stuhlbarg), followed by special agent Richard Strickland (Michael Shannon). The third arrival shows up in a tank, an amphibious being or fish man played wonderfully by Doug Jones. Captured in South America by Strickland the two have an adversarial disposition to one another.But Elisa sees something the others don't in the amphibian man. She sees a kindred spirit, another person who is different from the rest and ridiculed or tortured for it. Seeing the cattle prod tipped in blood used by Strickland on the creature she decides to reach out to it instead. She shares her lunch with the creature, nothing more than hard boiled eggs, but in treating it kindly she breaks through to him.None of this is noticed by the research team. She, like several characters in the film, are ghostlike non-entities, people who are there but never seen by those they work among. The only person who witnesses her communicating with the creature is Hoffstetler. But he won't reveal this. Why? Because he's a Russian spy sent to gather information and possibly steal the creature if possible.The story fluctuates between the tenderness and bond that forms between Elisa and the creature, the mean spirited, bitter and cruel treatment that Strickland pushes on any and every one (including his wife) and the characters found in the periphery here. Each contributes something to the forward movement of the story. Giles is gay and shunned but the film doesn't focus on that. Blacks are turned away from a restaurant he visits. Zelda is talked down to by her husband.Halfway through the film the decision is made to destroy the creature. Elisa and her friends set out to rescue him before that can happen. They succeed and take him to her apartment where she keeps him in the bathtub. It is here that her fondness for the creature morphs into not just affection but love as the couple become intimate with one another. It's become one of the more controversial moments in the film but needn't be coming off as more natural than most love scenes in films these days.But we know that the bad guy, Strickland, will eventually be pushed to become the evil government force that thinks only of killing anything they find. It's a slow buildup to that point and when it happens in the third act you know something will change the lives of all involved before the final reel.I've always been a big fan of Guillermo del Toro. While I've missed one or two of his films, I've yet to see one that I thought was bad. He has a visual style all his own, one that brings the fantasy realms to the screen and makes them believable. He does that here again creating a world, a creature and a romance between species that makes sense if that's possible. A fan of monster movies he turns the tables here making the hero the monster and the monster the hero. And it works incredibly well.The acting here by all involved is great as well. Kudos must go to Sally Hawkins for her bringing life to a character who has no way of speaking except with her hands, face and body language. She does so with skill. And while he may be ignored consistently by the Academy Doug Jones brings to life a creature that emotes through his body like no one else can. He's done this time and time again and never gets recognized for it. Shame on those who think the only way an actor acts is through the language they project.In the end the movie may not be for everyone. There is nudity and sexual situation that mean the kids can't sit in while you watch it. But for adults who understand the circumstances the story revolves around and who can find the romance beneath the makeu"
"To be honest i ll watch anything Guillermo del Toro makes because he defines for me what love is or what love can do. He shows most inhuman, alien, or beastly creatures are capable of love if you have the eye and heart for it. The creatures that he create and to mold them to life with so much detail and to have a backstory is the kind of work only del Toro can accomplish. I fell in love with the genre of horror solely because of him for he makes you see beneath the fear of the \"other side\" ...their perspective sometimes makes you cry. 
Coming to the movie, its an ordinary a girl meets boy genre and ofcourse with a fairy tale ending but what separates this movie apart from the normal rom-com genre is the brilliant cinematography and music editing specially with the bus scene with Hawkins running her fingers on the water on the mirror and the music cut at perfect timing!! Next is that Frank Sinatra scene on the stage with two of them dancing, it was suppose to be make one laugh but it made me cry... because we all know that somewhere how stupid it may seem we long for it. Then again cut scene from singing back to mute translation looked smoothly done . With actors such as Hawkins, Stuhlbarg , Shannon, Jenkins, Jones, and Spencer the movie was simple yet so beautifully crafted yes the word is CRAFTED! 
If you are up for a beautiful rom com with good taste of music and acting or more importantly going through rough patch in love... this is your movie! Cz its mine!"
"Elisa is a mute, isolated woman who works as a cleaning lady in a hidden, high-security government laboratory in 1962 Baltimore. Her life changes forever when she discovers the lab's classified secret -- a mysterious, scaled creature from South America that lives in a water tank. As Elisa develops a unique bond with her new friend, she soon learns that its fate and very survival lies in the hands of a hostile government agent and a marine biologist."
"I saw the Shape of Water in my local theater today. I saw the eloquence of the mute. I saw people who are truly monsters become the monsters they are. I saw the true nature of decency and the life-affirming challenge of loving someone who is different. I saw the cruel way that gods are treated and the terrifying innocence and the absolution of water. In short, it's an ordinary love story told via an extraordinary baptism."
"I was very skeptical about this movie from the very beginning, because I thought that this would probably be a dumb monster movie with a similar theme like \"Beauty and the Beast\". However, I was very surprised when I saw the movie and think that it was brilliant!After reading the reviews on this site, it is my understanding that many people that saw this move completely misunderstood it, both the people that loved it and the ones who hated it. The theme of the movie is not something similar to Beauty and the Beast for those who might think that! There are several themes in this movie, but the overall theme is about minorities and how privileged people view those who are different. However to make this message more clear the movie is set in the 1960's, where minorities were generally marginalized. The lead character Elisa Esposito is a mute woman, who was an orphaned child that was found in a river with wounds on her neck and communicates through sign language. She works in a government laboratory as a cleaning lady. Her friends are her co-worker Zelda, a black woman who serves as an interpreter for Elisa, and her next-door neighbor Giles, a closeted gay man. Elisa discovers a mysterious creature in the facility and begins to bond with it. The creature is a mute humanoid amphibian that was captured in a river in South America by Strickland, who is in charge of the project to study it.Elisa is the main protagonist in this story, and together with Zelda and Giles, they represent a social minority. Women, handicapped people, black people and gay people are all amongst those that were outcast by society at the time. On the other hand, there is Strickland who is the main antagonist in the story and he represents the privileged people at the time. He is a white man in a privileged position, married with children, religious, and is hostile to those who are not like him. He treats the creature hostilely, beats and abuses it, and calls it a monster.When Elisa learns that Strickland plans to vivisect the creature, she hatches a plan with the help of her friends to free the creature and keeping it in a bathtub at her apartment and planning to set it free in the ocean. Elisa and the creature bond romantically and it is revealed that the creature has healing powers.When the day arrives to set the creature free, Strickland arrives and shoots Elisa and the creature. The creature heals itself and kills Strickland. The creature takes Elisa and jumps into the ocean where it heals her. When the creature applies his healing touch to the scars on her neck, she starts to breathe through gills.Here is the TWIST: This scene reveals that Elisa was of the same kind as the creature all along. She just had a more human like form than the creature. There are different clues throughout the film. She was found as child next to a river like the creature. She was found with the \"scars\" on her neck and they turned out to be dormant gills as the creature healed her. She was mute like the creature. She loved being in water as shown in her morning habits. She was initially attracted to the creature whereas most people would fear it. She comes from a Spanish speaking country, as her last name is Spanish whereas the creature was found in a river in South America.The creature itself and Elisa represent a minority, as they are alike. The fact that the creature is different yet human like, symbolizes how privileged people viewed minorities at the time. The point of the monster is simply to symbolize how we sometimes view other people that are different from us.The message of the story is this: You view other people that are different from yourself as \"monsters\" if you don't try to understand them. However, if you try to understand people who are different from yourself, then you will see that we are basically all alike even though we look different.I think this movie was brilliant and very clever. Guillermo Del Toro did a great job. It is definitely a movie worth watching.This is my point of view and I hope that you found this helpful."
"Typical for a beautiful movie to be underrated by most people. The difference in meta and user score was to be expected. In my experience, this movie was captivating from the first scene and ended on a high note, with a simple frame, music and quote. Del Toro takes you on a journey, that never goes full-blown fantasy. The minor details in both film and music are sublime. It really brings the story to life. In my opinion, this is one of those movies that don't need any questions. You have to experience is. Perhaps it is a story that is only enjoyable for people that daydream. The ambiance and message are set up in a way, a hopeless romantic could feast on for days. Seeing as most Hollywood movies are complete rubbish, this one really shows what a movie is capable of. Bringing the love of a celebrated director on screen. Go see this movie!"
"A sweet and beautiful fairy tale for a modern world. So thoughtful and lovingly made! Very clever, it's a shame so many people have lost the patience and understanding to really appreciate how great this movie actually is."
"I don't really know where to start. This movie is in my top 5 favorite movies! This movie is an artwork. I will tell you why:Very outstanding is the writing. Things happen fast but they are always written in a very elegant way so that it never seems jumpy. Emotional dialogs and very beautiful turns in the plot. What I liked the most about the writing is the character development. Very different characters but they all fit well together to tell that story. It is very easy for the audience to immerse into the story and identify oneself with nearly all of the characters.I also really liked the music that makes you feel time travelling back in time and feel all the moments first hand.To conclude, this is a very elegant and beautiful fairy-tale that is definitely worth watching. It is a new type of love and friendship story that makes you laugh, cry and hate together with the characters.Magnificent!"
"I usually find Guillermo del Toro's film either a hit or miss but this one is definitely a hit. The Shape of Water is a fantastical love story filled with charm, wit, danger, and somberness. While I will agree the story is a bit predictable, the characters are no less impressive and the story telling is on point with what it's trying to convey to its audience. Sally Hawkins is phenomenal with her portrayal as, Elisa, a mute woman whom cleans for a governmental facility and stumbles up on a creature they call the \"the Asset\", portrayed by the brilliant Doug Jones. Together their performance as two characters whom do not speak with their voice but with sign language or just by actions is truly breathtaking. While the overall plot may be a little unoriginal, I do believe its derivative is done with a creative twist and a spark of genius on del Toro's part. To have a strong female lead be a mute woman with timid tendencies and a quirky yet charming personality was a stroke of pure genius and you really empathize with her character. However, there is one more actor I would love to applaud for his work and that is Michael Shannon. His work never ceases to amaze me and he always portrays his villainous characters so well. His character in the movie, Richard Strickland, is the very definition of a bigoted and ignorant man I would hate to know. There times in this film where you are just feel completely disturbed by his presence and this is only watching him on the big screen! I cannot imagine what it felt like to be face to face with him while he played this vile character. I was really disappointed Michael Shannon did not even get a shred of a golden globe nomination for his performance because he truly deserved one. I love characters that I can relate to but if an actor can do their job well and really make me hate their character then I know they deserve respect. If you are looking for originality in regards to plot, I can't say this film is for you. If you enjoy originality in regards to characters, atmosphere, and special effects then this film will be for you. Its a wonderful and unique romance for those who want something different or whimsical. Overall, I do believe it deserves its praise in some areas of originality and wonderful storytelling done in such a charming way. In my opinion, its one of Guillermo del Toro's finest films he's ever made."
"This film was extremely imaginative and gorgeously shot. At the heart of it, the film is about a girl who falls in love with a fish. But it adds so many gorgeous elements to it to make it feel like you are watching an epic. The acting is phenominal, especially Sally Hawkins and Richard Jenkins. Worth checking out!"
"What a beautiful movie both in terms of the cinematography and the story. The colors and the imagery were so beautiful. The story, not unlike Amelie in the tone, was romantic and magical. The movie builds and ends on a high moving note."
"The Shape Of Water in a sentence. It's a VERY adult fantasy love story. Words I would use to describe the experience. Delightful, whimsical, sexual, magical, romantic, musical, grotesquely violent, and finally, unique. I want to stress the sexual and grotesquely violent aspects for anyone deciding to bring their children to see it - you'll have some explaining to do after. But for adults, this movie is pure magic. Don't miss it in the theater!I loved it to death and will see it again before it leaves my local theater! Worth the ticket price, no regrets. I cried tears of joy during a particular black and white musical segment that was so surreal and you just know you're watching someting special when it happens. If you saw this movie, you know what part I'm talking about.More movies like this please!"
"Beautiful, fairy-tale pure story was not only a metaphor for the too common inhumanity of man toward anything not exactly like man, but was also a love story showing how love can happen anytime to anyone, and with no boundaries, even death. Filmmaker Del Toro showed the soul and sensibility of the ages here in his depiction of a shy, working class girl who fell in love with a sea creature in a government \"research project\" reminiscent of the 50's Communist era witch hunts. And, with the same dark intentions.The film's somber mood, dim and sad colorization of the \"research\" area, and the interplay of the characters was so effective in the fairy tale atmosphere it gave to a very serious world problem............man's tendency of hate and cruelty toward anything not exactly like he is, in body and in mind. That that way of thinking is so wrong is well shown here in a harsh way, but also in a way that resonates with anyone who resists that cast in stone way of thinking and acting toward different others.The acting was uniformly great, as was the soundtrack, sets and costuming. And, of course, \"the creature\" was marvelous, so nuanced and subtle. Loved the unique noises he made, and their individual shading depending on what was happening,.... it was all too....can I say..... \"human\", and one of the best and most informative parts of the story. Enjoy this wonderful film, as you will not see another like it until another Del Toro film comes our way."
"My best friend and I pay to see movies in theaters several times a month, and, when we saw the first trailer for \"The Shape of Water,\" months before it was to open, we couldn't wait to see it. But then new and even more detailed trailers started being shown, and, frankly, we felt we had to have seen the entire plot and most of its twists in those trailers, and decided to skip seeing the film. After it was awarded multiple awards from various organizations and associations and ultimately nominated for 13 Oscars (and it was a dry week for finding something to see) we decided to give it a shot--and we were both so glad we did. It's now turned out to be one of our favorite films of 2017, and has had a lingering effect after viewing as well. While yes, the trailers were too detailed, and some twists we wish we hadn't known about are shown in them, \"Water\" is so detailed with beautiful production design, excellent acting, an absorbing adult fairy tale story, and such a powerful, satisfying conclusion that it triumphs over those trailers and thankfully offers much, much more than we expected."
"The movie is magical and Guillermo and his team, all of them, actors, writers, are geniuses."
"What a beautiful film. In fact it is the same message of love I heard in the film ARRIVAL, women are LOVE. Violence and stupidity are the realm of men. Our world is slowly but surely engaged in a undeniable path of destruction and the only way to save us is if women take control of the powers that rule this world."
"\"The Shape Of Water\" is the new project from writer/director Guillermo Del Toro who brought us Pan's Labyrinth, Pacific Rim, The Hellboy Movies and to an extent The Hobbit trilogy (which gets to much hate). I wasn't a huge fan of Crimson peak, but the Shape Of Water really looked intriguing from the trailers. I sat there blown away by what I was seeing. This is one of my favorite films of 2017. It is unique, original, interesting, intriguing, and weird all at the same time.Sally Hawkins gives a really great performance in one of the most inspirational performances I have ever seen. her character is mute and has no lines of dialogue aside from a dream sequence, but man does she play this character with confidence. The supporting cast also does a really great job, Michael Shannon of course being the next standout, and no one phone sin a performance at all. This film has that old school vibe to it. There is a use of a lot of practical effects, and the makeup and hairstyling is some of the best I've seen on film this year. The amphibian creature, if it is motion captured, is seamlessly integrated into the movie that the use of practical effects looks so appealing.The set designs are also really great. Lots of little details that you have to pay attention to that you wouldn't normally pay attention to. The lighting in these scenes also adds a lot of depth to the movie. There are scenes that are dim for a reason, and some with more lighting for a reason. It is really a great way to use lighting to convey the details of the environment. This is a story that grabbed me from the beginning. Not once was I bored watching this movie. It kept me engaged and there is so much character development that it ended up making me care at the end. Out of all of the characters that you root for, there is not one single character that you end up not liking.And if my memory serves me correctly, there is not one scene of exposition in this film. Not one. There are some \"hints\" here and there as to what is going on in the background, but from what I remember it's not explicitly stated. It leaves it up to you to put together all of the clues and I really like that about this film.I'm happy we got something original in Hollywood. Everyone craves for something original, and then everyone hates it when something original comes out. It was a nice breath to just see something so refreshing instead of plot threads being retreaded and following clichés that we see in movies nowadays. This is one of my favorite films of the year.I am going to give \"The Shape Of Water\" an A+."
"Without false decorations, there is no doubt that \"The Shape of Water\" is an eye-catching drop-dead gorgeous masterpiece, Del Toro's last Magnum opus is a eerie and charming homage to ordinary-people-do-extraordinary-things stories and, without hyperbolizing my extreme love for this filmmaker- although that's just the truth -his film is one of the most clever, stirring and visually handsome experiences, a deeply moving and impressive modern-cinema classic, an artistically perfect, beautifully acted, directed and scripted impossible-love movie that I have seen in my whole life.For the most stringent movie-buffs, like me, the first thing coming to light when the screening is over is that the script has many plot holes, namely, neither it provides minimal explanation about how or why was the creature created, nor uses scientific technicalities or the peripheral problems of the main role, the supporting characters or the time in which it's developed; the film simply doesn't walk around and to enjoy it is necessary to understand it in the way its director wants: As a story about monsters in which love and loss, as a whole, play the greatest roles. This film allows executing extraordinary tours de force for two members of the cast. Year after year, the great Michael Shannon surprises more and more. His Richard Strickland is voracious, egomaniac, magnetic and terrifying; this performance is made by real quality, portraying a man oppressed by machismo, greed and power, possibly a reflex that reconciles in a good way with the mess of sexual and labor harassment that has begun to be strengthened in recent months, an epitome of all those monsters with ties and contacts that simply require and cancel. On the other side of the coin, the second monumental performance lies, of course, on the shoulders of Sally Hawkins, getting that a mute lady gains a powerful label, not a new icon of female overcoming or anything by style, a sign of love, faith, and freedom. Del Toro keeps doing his job excellently, selecting a top-notch artistic team. Flick after flick, story after story are strongly driven by an overwhelming visual tidiness, leaving out genre or purpose, it's a tradition that each of its motion pictures means sublimity in creative fields. His newest work could be placed on the top of the podium. \"The Shape of Water\" is what it's thanks to the hard work put on it, a feat that must be recognized and praised. Dark colors and lack of brightness are trademarks, each scene uses the global tonality in order to encompass throughout the film the feeling that the filmmaker wants the spectator to get. While in the opening sequence prevails a gloomy green color in the water, in the later set-pieces you can appreciate green olives, pale whites, yellowish and greenish blues that give shape to the idea. In addition, such colors are also applied to costumes, makeup, staging and visual tricks, supported by an ideal and particularly opaque illumination that denotes a quietly beautiful time. Pictures are flawless. Its cinematography embellishes key scenes and the ingenious approaches switching from one scene to another use old-school techniques that Del Toro frequents, and here get a new level of complexity and intensity, simply outstanding. Alexandre Desplat is also an important piece in the puzzle, he plays again a role of issuer of emotions by means of sound, through a work that surely will give him besides an enormous recognizing, satisfaction and pride for becoming one of the most requested Hollywood composers. Guillermo Del Toro's \"The Shape of Water\" is a devastating experience, not due to its subtle horror moments, its entertaining material or its mischievous comic sense, but simplicity and delicacy with which this filmmaker treats his invention, a work brimming with gold qualities that are not created by film-romantic traditionalism, the core purpose is a message about loss and happiness, because this, in many cases, means love, and that's precisely the meaning of the movie title. In its entirety, water may never be contained, water is amorphous, love is amorphous, therefore, its conceptions are entirely immeasurable. It's one of the best years for Mexico in the American industry thanks to \"Coco\" and \"The Shape of Water\", it's also time to remunerate all the contributions for cinema made by this peculiar filmmaker. While some people give him millions of dollars and little gold men, we, the dreamers and most loyal followers, give our deepest respect, admiration and gratitude, becoming, at least personally, a true role model."
"Such a beautifully, weird love story. Also a story of the life of the outsiders of society during the 1960s. The monster in this movie is the \"normal\" everyday man. The main character Elisa never speaks, as she is mute, but she makes one feel with the emotion she portrays with her eyes and body language. In a world and time where someone like her would be seen as less than, she lives a comfortable life in a world of her own making. She seems to lack a certain something, a sense of fulfillment, maybe. 
All of this changes when \"the asset\" is brought into the government lab, where she works alongside her African American friend Zelda, as a janitor. Seen by everyone else as a thing, Elisa treats the Amphibian Man with kindness and develops a friendship with him. 
Other than this love story, the Shape of Water portrays a 1960s world where kindness is found in the other, outsiders, and malice is found in the \"normals\". It is a beautiful movie to look at, with a plot that flows."
"I fell in love with this movie from the opening scene. It is everything a great movie should be -- a compelling story with wonderful characters; it looks amazing, both through natural cinematography and visual effects; it is familiar enough to be warm yet new enough to be boldly original; the casting is perfect.
 
I originally saw this at a press screening at The Toronto International Film Festival in September and I was so enthralled that I did something I have never done before: I went back to see the same movie again at the same film festival. The second viewing was in The Elgin Theatre in Toronto which is used as a key location in the film, so the audience erupted into applause when we reached the main scene set there -- we were watching the characters standing in a cinema in 1960s Baltimore, yet they were in the very cinema in which we were watching them! It was the icing on the cake in terms of sealing the magic into the viewing experience. I even sat in the same row of the cinema as the characters in the movie were placed.
 
I had the privilege of attending writer/director Guillermo del Toro's screen talk at The London Film Festival and hearing more about the production, including its childhood connection to Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954). Simply wonderful."
"Didn't know what to expect of this movie after watching the trailer. After hearing all the buzz, I had to see it. I left the theater saying, WOW.....that was a great story! Oscar worthy."
"Suspension of belief is what makes movies, like \"The Shape of Water\", enjoyable. I think some of these low rating reviews are people focused way too far in on the logistics and probability of this actually happening in real life. Just enjoy the highly stylized and magical little universe Del Toro has created. I loved his movie so much! This isn't you're regular action-packed sci-fi flick and that's ok. It stands out, for me the plot was built in a way that made me really care about this characters, which doesn't happen often for me. This is, in bulk, a romance movie. To be able to enjoy this movie you can't sit there and think about \"how this could actually happen in reality\". Just enjoy the movie as entertainment. Sure the movie is quirky, but that's just another reason to love it. I know this movie won't be everyone's cup of tea but I stand by the movie. I think another thing that might help people enjoy it more is when you reflect on the movie after they reveal that she too, is like the Amphibian Man. Think about how all the little things hint to her being like the Amphian Man, like the scars on her neck, hard boiled eggs, the scales on the wallpaper in her bathroom, and even the masturbation scenes. The main point of this review is just to remind viewers that it's ok not to take everything so serious and to just enjoy the ride."
"I find the movie enyoable. It has everithing: suspense, romance, fantasy with a vintage touch. Great directing by del Toro as usual, and Sally Hawkins and Octavia Spencer made an excelent performance, and what can i say of Michel Shannon, just amaizing and convincing. The monster is a mix of horror, beauty, miracle, etc."
"Beauty and the Beast. Girl and the Gill-man. Guillermo del Toro's THE SHAPE OF WATER is a charming, funny, sensual and horrific love story and the best film Guillermo has done since Pan's Labyrinth. It's a hilarious 1950s Soviet-era sci-fi romance with a very nice, bloody touch of horror.Elisa, a mute woman played by the adorable Sally Hawkins, works at a top secret laboratory in Baltimore as a cleaning lady. Every night she visits THE CREATURE FROM THE BLACK LAGOON, who has been captured and is being experimented on by the evil Strickland played by Michael Shannon. Elisa falls in love with the creature and she has to get the creature out before he's killed.The brilliant DOUG JONES plays THE CREATURE. He's a perfect interpretation of Universal's Gill-Man. This could be a sequel to the original Black Lagoon film. Richard Jenkins and Octavia Spencer are also charming supporting roles."
"The Shape of Water: A Horror Film but also SF Adventure, Spy Thriller, Love Story, directed, produced and co-written (with Vanessa Taylor) by Guillermo del Toro. Beautifully filmed by cinematographer by Dan Laustin in so many shades of green, teal, aquamarine, tans, brown, gold and red which give it a 50s/early 60s feel. Wonderful production design by Paul D Austerby with a subterranean laboratory and over cinema apartments in which most of the action transpires.Mute janitor Elisa (Sally Hawkins) and her friend Zelda (Octavia Spencer) work in a military run research facility when a strange Creature (Doug Jones) is brought to the laboratory. The Creature injures Colonel Strickland (Michael Shannon) who was torturing it. Strickland captured the Creature in the Amazon and hopes to exploit its amphibious nature to advance the US Space Programme. Falling in love with the creature, Elisa enlists the help of Zelda, her neighbour Giles (Richard Jenkins) and a kindly scientist, Dr Bob (Michael Stuhlbarg) to free him from the laboratory.The Creature resembles the 1950s Creature From The Black Lagoon with aspect of Predator and ALF. Jones brings the creature to life and you can truly believe in the love which develops between them. Inter-species sex results which strangely doesn't strain credibility due ti the acting skills of Hawkins and Jones but will no doubt outrage some. Its not so long ago since director Tim Burton in Planet Of The Apes avoided a romance between Astronaut (Wahlberg) and Chimpanzee (Bonham Carter) as he feared that such a film would be shunned by cinema chains.This is also a film about loneliness, that of Elisa, Giles who is gay, Bob a stranger in a strange land, Zelda who is estranged within her marriage and of course the Creature himself. The Civil Rights struggle takes place in the background as the film is set in 1962 Baltimore. Sometimes it comes to the fore as when the man Giles longs after refuses service to a Black couple in a café. Also, all of the janitors/attendants at the research facility are Black or Hispanic but the scientists/technicians and military police are White.All of this is expertly juggled and mixed together by del Toro to make a masterpiece. 10/10."
"The Shape of Water is a gorgeous achievement in film, one of the best of 2017, and one of Guillermo del Toro's finest.We'll start with a paragraph that can apply to any of del Toro's films. It's damn beautiful. Every scene, every setpiece, every emotional beat, is dripping with so much character and vibrancy that it's impossible not to be enthralled from beginning to end. Every frame is a masterpiece, and beyond that, del Toro perfectly films each shot in interesting ways that always remain appropriate for the film's tone. It feels like a finely crafted adult fairy tale. It's like a less-steampunk version of Bioshock.The casting is also brilliant for the roles. Sally Hawkins is the standout, as our protagonist, Elisa. I could not imagine anyone else doing better in this role. There wasn't a single scene, a single moment, where she wasn't perfect for what the film needs. I bought in completely.The other cast members are equally well-suited for their roles. Octavia Spencer is excellent as the foul-mouthed, funny, and caring friend and coworker. Michael Shannon's villain, while a bit over the top, certainly gets the job done and drives many scenes of the film. Richard Jenkins is a delight, as he often is. And, of course, I've got to give some credit to Doug Jones as the monster. Everything else being great, the movie still doesn't work if the monster is unconvincing or silly, and he nails it.Another standout, for me, is the score. The music is not only outstanding on its own, but actively enhances just about every scene. It never comes on too strong, it doesn't steal the show, it just gracefully supplements the on-screen action flawlessly. It's in-line with the setting, the themes, the tone, sentimental when it needs to be, and grandiose, orchestral, and sweeping during the more bombast moments. There were many moments while watching where I couldn't help but sit and smile at the gorgeousness of the film, and they were all moments where the score was in full-swing. It's perfectly appropriate for the film itself, and it's also a soundtrack that I wouldn't mind listening to on its own.While I thoroughly enjoyed every bit of the film, it wasn't without flaws:The story is quite simple. If you've seen the trailer, you've seen the entire story outside of the final five minutes. Every plot point is easy enough to predict, and every scene plays out as expected (I understand that this isn't necessarily an objective flaw. There's of course nothing inherently wrong with 'simple' stories. I just prefer writing that's generally more enigmatic, I guess). That being said, the scenes also play out with so much beauty, and every setpiece and shot is so meticulously crafted that I'm 100% fine with going along for the ride.Also, like most del Toro films, there's not much room for thought outside of the film. It gives you everything you need and more, delivers it on a silver platter topped with whipped cream, a million cherries, wrapping paper, and a bow for good measure. If you've seen a del Toro film, you know that he loves his metaphors and allegory. But there's a difference between simply putting this stuff in a film and letting the audience do some work to discover them (which, as a filmgoer, is often the most rewarding aspect of watching well-crafted movies), and repeatedly slapping you across the face with them. Again, is this an objective flaw? Certainly not. Just personal preference, so I'm not faulting it too much.Lastly, the characters are cartoonish to the point where it feels like the movie is forcing you to feel certain ways, instead of provoking free thought. There's honestly a decent moral and ethical argument in here about the treatment of a creature like this, about how exactly to proceed knowing it possesses a clear intelligence. Instead, we get an over the top, one-dimensional, pure evil villain (another del Toro staple) along with protagonists who are basically too perfect, without any flaws whatsoever. I'm better about overlooking this half of it, as they are at least incredibly charming, and Sally Hawkins is prefect for the role. Listen, given this set up, it's not difficult - at all - to get us on the protagonist's side. Trust that Sally Hawkins as Elisa will get us there (she would have, easily). You don't have to twist the audience's arm and make her go up against despicable, irredeemable evil in Michael Shannon (who is also great) in order to get us there. Just tone it down with the shades of black and white that are layered on these people. It feels like we're being forced to feel a way that we would have anyway. At the end of the day, is it a big flaw? Not really (I've certainly spent way too much time talking about it for how small of a flaw it is, honestly). The movie is great despite this. It's just something I noticed here, and is also prevalent in his other films, so I thought it was worthy of mentioning.I've spent too much time talking about flaws that really don't hurt the end product all that much. I think the movie is largely so beautiful and enjoyable that the few flaws stick out a bit more. The good elements of this are so great that I'd rather tell people to go see the movie to experience them, while the bad elements are so small and subjective that I feel like I'm obligated to explain them in more detail just to make it clear as to what I mean with my criticisms.Make no mistake, The Shape of Water is an excellent, excellent film. One of my favorites of the year, and probably my favorite Guillermo del Toro work. I'd recommend it to anyone."
"My mind has changed since I saw so many pompous critics.Ten stars for the most beautiful romance I've ever seen."
"Guillermo del Toro is today's master of fantasy, having been a childhood lover of monsters growing up in Guadalajara, Mexico, before making some of the finest films of recent years -- from the ghostly horror of \"The Devil's Backbone\" in 2001 to his gothic horror/romance, \"Crimson Peak\" in 2015. Indubitably, however, his greatest film is \"Pan's Labyrinth\", the 2006 film many of us consider the finest fantasy film ever made. Now he's broken new ground with \"The Shape of Water\", one of 2017's most beautiful films. Set in Baltimore in the year 1962 at the height of the Cold War, the plot follows a mute janitor at a secret government laboratory who forms a bond with a captured amphibian of the \"Creature of the Black Lagoon\" variety. Her name is Elisa, and Sally Hawkins plays her with an artistry that seems to reach back to the silent days of Chaplin and Keaton. Michael Shannon, with devoted viciousness, plays the right-wing Colonel Strickland, someone more interested in dissecting the creature for exploitation purposes than he is concerned over the space race with the Soviets. There are also elements of religious allegory (\"We're created in the Lord's image. You don't think that's what the Lord looks like, do you?\"). Del Toro saw \"The Creature from the Black Lagoon\" on TV at 7 years old and it changed his life. Wishing a different ending for it in which the Gill Man and co-star Julie Adams would consummate their romance and live 'happily ever after', he wrote various scripts of a remake through the years that Universal studio executives wound up rejecting. \"The Shape of Water\" is the result of del Toro's dream, and now today, with more permissive filmmaking allowable, he's able to deal with the previously verboten issue between fish and human. The resulting film is a worthy accomplishment not only for its production design (embodying various shades of green) and its special effects, but also for attaining the level of a genuine adult fairy tale that deals with issues of trust, tolerance, and love in the human condition -- but most of all what it's like to be an outsider (whether a lonely mute woman, gay man, overweight black woman, or an amphibious sea creature). \"This is a healing movie for me,\" del Toro states; one likes to think it would be for viewers as well."
"An absolute master-piece! This is one of those films you can watch over and over again. Great acting, beautifully written script and 2 hours went so quick I wish it never ended. I can see why they won a Oscar for this."
